Mature neural networks synchronize and integrate spatiotemporal activity patterns to support cognition . Emergence of these activity patterns and functions is believed to be developmentally regulated , but the postnatal time course for neural networks to perform complex computations remains unknown . We investigate the progression of large-scale synaptic and cellular activity patterns across development using high spatiotemporal resolution in vivo electrophysiology in immature mice . We reveal that mature cortical processes emerge rapidly and simultaneously after a discrete but volatile transition period at the beginning of the second postnatal week of rodent development . The transition is characterized by relative neural quiescence , after which spatially distributed , temporally precise , and internally organized activity occurs . We demonstrate a similar developmental trajectory in humans , suggesting an evolutionarily conserved mechanism that could facilitate a transition in network operation . We hypothesize that this transient quiescent period is a requisite for the subsequent emergence of coordinated cortical networks . 
Many decisions are thought to arise via the accumulation of noisy evidence to a threshold or bound . In perception , the mechanism explains the effect of stimulus strength , characterized by signal-to-noise ratio , on decision speed , accuracy and confidence . It also makes intriguing predictions about the noise itself . An increase in noise should lead to faster decisions , reduced accuracy and , paradoxically , higher confidence . To test these predictions , we introduce a novel sensory manipulation that mimics the addition of unbiased noise to motion-selective regions of visual cortex , which we verified with neuronal recordings from macaque areas MT/MST . For both humans and monkeys , increasing the noise induced faster decisions and greater confidence over a range of stimuli for which accuracy was minimally impaired . The magnitude of the effects was in agreement with predictions of a bounded evidence accumulation model . 
Mutations in the inositol 5-phosphatase OCRL cause Lowe syndrome and Dent's disease . Although OCRL , a direct clathrin interactor , is recruited to late-stage clathrin-coated pits , clinical manifestations have been primarily attributed to intracellular sorting defects . Here we show that OCRL loss in Lowe syndrome patient fibroblasts impacts clathrin-mediated endocytosis and results in an endocytic defect . These cells exhibit an accumulation of clathrin-coated vesicles and an increase in U-shaped clathrin-coated pits , which may result from sequestration of coat components on uncoated vesicles . Endocytic vesicles that fail to lose their coat nucleate the majority of the numerous actin comets present in patient cells . SNX9 , an adaptor that couples late-stage endocytic coated pits to actin polymerization and which we found to bind OCRL directly , remains associated with such vesicles . These results indicate that OCRL acts as an uncoating factor and that defects in clathrin-mediated endocytosis likely contribute to pathology in patients with OCRL mutations . 
Gradients of signaling proteins are essential for inducing tissue morphogenesis . However , mechanisms of gradient formation remain controversial . Here we characterized the distribution of fluorescently-tagged signaling proteins , FGF and FGFR , expressed at physiological levels from the genomic knock-in alleles in Drosophila . FGF produced in the larval wing imaginal-disc moves to the air-sac-primordium ( ASP ) through FGFR-containing cytonemes that extend from the ASP to contact the wing-disc source . The number of FGF-receiving cytonemes extended by ASP cells decreases gradually with increasing distance from the source , generating a recipient-specific FGF gradient . Acting as a morphogen in the ASP , FGF activates concentration-dependent gene expression , inducing pointed-P1 at higher and cut at lower levels . The transcription-factors Pointed-P1 and Cut antagonize each other and differentially regulate formation of FGFR-containing cytonemes , creating regions with higher-to-lower numbers of FGF-receiving cytonemes . These results reveal a robust mechanism where morphogens self-generate precise tissue-specific gradient contours through feedback regulation of cytoneme-mediated dispersion . 
Similarity between two individuals in the combination of genetic markers along their chromosomes indicates shared ancestry and can be used to identify historical connections between different population groups due to admixture . We use a genome-wide , haplotype-based , analysis to characterise the structure of genetic diversity and gene-flow in a collection of 48 sub-Saharan African groups . We show that coastal populations experienced an influx of Eurasian haplotypes over the last 7000 years , and that Eastern and Southern Niger-Congo speaking groups share ancestry with Central West Africans as a result of recent population expansions . In fact , most sub-Saharan populations share ancestry with groups from outside of their current geographic region as a result of gene-flow within the last 4000 years . Our in-depth analysis provides insight into haplotype sharing across different ethno-linguistic groups and the recent movement of alleles into new environments , both of which are relevant to studies of genetic epidemiology . 
Latent Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) infection is causally linked to several human cancers . EBV expresses viral oncogenes that promote cell growth and inhibit the apoptotic response to uncontrolled proliferation . The EBV oncoprotein LMP1 constitutively activates NFκB and is critical for survival of EBV-immortalized B cells . However , during early infection EBV induces rapid B cell proliferation with low levels of LMP1 and little apoptosis . Therefore , we sought to define the mechanism of survival in the absence of LMP1/NFκB early after infection . We used BH3 profiling to query mitochondrial regulation of apoptosis and defined a transition from uninfected B cells ( BCL-2 ) to early-infected ( MCL-1/BCL-2 ) and immortalized cells ( BFL-1 ) . This dynamic change in B cell survival mechanisms is unique to virus-infected cells and relies on regulation of MCL-1 mitochondrial localization and BFL-1 transcription by the viral EBNA3A protein . This study defines a new role for EBNA3A in the suppression of apoptosis with implications for EBV lymphomagenesis . 
Dynamic post-translational modification of RNA polymerase II ( RNAPII ) coordinates the co-transcriptional recruitment of enzymatic complexes that regulate chromatin states and processing of nascent RNA . Extensive phosphorylation of serine residues at the largest RNAPII subunit occurs at its structurally-disordered C-terminal domain ( CTD ) , which is composed of multiple heptapeptide repeats with consensus sequence Y1-S2-P3-T4-S5-P6-S7 . Serine-5 and Serine-7 phosphorylation mark transcription initiation , whereas Serine-2 phosphorylation coincides with productive elongation . In vertebrates , the CTD has eight non-canonical substitutions of Serine-7 into Lysine-7 , which can be acetylated ( K7ac ) . Here , we describe mono- and di-methylation of CTD Lysine-7 residues ( K7me1 and K7me2 ) . K7me1 and K7me2 are observed during the earliest transcription stages and precede or accompany Serine-5 and Serine-7 phosphorylation . In contrast , K7ac is associated with RNAPII elongation , Serine-2 phosphorylation and mRNA expression . We identify an unexpected balance between RNAPII K7 methylation and acetylation at gene promoters , which fine-tunes gene expression levels . 
Swi2/Snf2 ATPases remodel substrates such as nucleosomes and transcription complexes to control a wide range of DNA-associated processes , but detailed structural information on the ATP-dependent remodeling reactions is largely absent . The single subunit remodeler Mot1 ( modifier of transcription 1 ) dissociates TATA box-binding protein ( TBP ) :DNA complexes , offering a useful system to address the structural mechanisms of Swi2/Snf2 ATPases . Here , we report the crystal structure of the N-terminal domain of Mot1 in complex with TBP , DNA , and the transcription regulator negative cofactor 2 ( NC2 ) . Our data show that Mot1 reduces DNA:NC2 interactions and unbends DNA as compared to the TBP:DNA:NC2 state , suggesting that Mot1 primes TBP:NC2 displacement in an ATP-independent manner . Electron microscopy and cross-linking data suggest that the Swi2/Snf2 domain of Mot1 associates with the upstream DNA and the histone fold of NC2 , thereby revealing parallels to some nucleosome remodelers . This study provides a structural framework for how a Swi2/Snf2 ATPase interacts with its substrate DNA:protein complex . 
Accurate chromosome segregation depends on coordination between cohesion resolution and kinetochore-microtubule interactions ( K-fibers ) , a process regulated by the spindle assembly checkpoint ( SAC ) . How these diverse processes are coordinated remains unclear . We show that in mammalian oocytes Shugoshin-like protein 2 ( Sgol2 ) in addition to protecting cohesin , plays an important role in turning off the SAC , in promoting the congression and bi-orientation of bivalents on meiosis I spindles , in facilitating formation of K-fibers and in limiting bivalent stretching . Sgol2’s ability to protect cohesin depends on its interaction with PP2A , as is its ability to silence the SAC , with the latter being mediated by direct binding to Mad2 . In contrast , its effect on bivalent stretching and K-fiber formation is independent of PP2A and mediated by recruitment of MCAK and inhibition of Aurora C kinase activity respectively . By virtue of its multiple interactions , Sgol2 links many of the processes essential for faithful chromosome segregation . 
Streptococcus pneumoniae is a leading cause of invasive disease in infants , especially in low-income settings . Asymptomatic carriage in the nasopharynx is a prerequisite for disease , but variability in its duration is currently only understood at the serotype level . Here we developed a model to calculate the duration of carriage episodes from longitudinal swab data , and combined these results with whole genome sequence data . We estimated that pneumococcal genomic variation accounted for 63% of the phenotype variation , whereas the host traits considered here ( age and previous carriage ) accounted for less than 5% . We further partitioned this heritability into both lineage and locus effects , and quantified the amount attributable to the largest sources of variation in carriage duration: serotype ( 17% ) , drug-resistance ( 9% ) and other significant locus effects ( 7% ) . A pan-genome-wide association study identified prophage sequences as being associated with decreased carriage duration independent of serotype , potentially by disruption of the competence mechanism . These findings support theoretical models of pneumococcal competition and antibiotic resistance . 
C4 photosynthesis has independently evolved from the ancestral C3 pathway in at least 60 plant lineages , but , as with other complex traits , how it evolved is unclear . Here we show that the polyphyletic appearance of C4 photosynthesis is associated with diverse and flexible evolutionary paths that group into four major trajectories . We conducted a meta-analysis of 18 lineages containing species that use C3 , C4 , or intermediate C3–C4 forms of photosynthesis to parameterise a 16-dimensional phenotypic landscape . We then developed and experimentally verified a novel Bayesian approach based on a hidden Markov model that predicts how the C4 phenotype evolved . The alternative evolutionary histories underlying the appearance of C4 photosynthesis were determined by ancestral lineage and initial phenotypic alterations unrelated to photosynthesis . We conclude that the order of C4 trait acquisition is flexible and driven by non-photosynthetic drivers . This flexibility will have facilitated the convergent evolution of this complex trait . 
Host shutoff is a common strategy used by viruses to repress cellular mRNA translation and concomitantly allow the efficient translation of viral mRNAs . Here we use RNA-sequencing and ribosome profiling to explore the mechanisms that are being utilized by the Influenza A virus ( IAV ) to induce host shutoff . We show that viral transcripts are not preferentially translated and instead the decline in cellular protein synthesis is mediated by viral takeover on the mRNA pool . Our measurements also uncover strong variability in the levels of cellular transcripts reduction , revealing that short transcripts are less affected by IAV . Interestingly , these mRNAs that are refractory to IAV infection are enriched in cell maintenance processes such as oxidative phosphorylation . Furthermore , we show that the continuous oxidative phosphorylation activity is important for viral propagation . Our results advance our understanding of IAV-induced shutoff , and suggest a mechanism that facilitates the translation of genes with important housekeeping functions . 
The transcription factor RpaA is the master regulator of circadian transcription in cyanobacteria , driving genome-wide oscillations in mRNA abundance . Deletion of rpaA has no effect on viability in constant light conditions , but renders cells inviable in cycling conditions when light and dark periods alternate . We investigated the mechanisms underlying this viability defect , and demonstrate that the rpaA- strain cannot maintain appropriate energy status at night , does not accumulate carbon reserves during the day , and is defective in transcription of genes crucial for utilization of carbohydrate stores at night . Reconstruction of carbon utilization pathways combined with provision of an external carbon source restores energy charge and viability of the rpaA- strain in light/dark cycling conditions . Our observations highlight how a circadian output pathway controls and temporally coordinates essential pathways in carbon metabolism to maximize fitness of cells facing periodic energy limitations . 
Coiled coils are the best-understood protein fold , as their backbone structure can uniquely be described by parametric equations . This level of understanding has allowed their manipulation in unprecedented detail . They do not seem a likely source of surprises , yet we describe here the unexpected formation of a new type of fiber by the simple insertion of two or six residues into the underlying heptad repeat of a parallel , trimeric coiled coil . These insertions strain the supercoil to the breaking point , causing the local formation of short β-strands , which move the path of the chain by 120° around the trimer axis . The result is an α/β coiled coil , which retains only one backbone hydrogen bond per repeat unit from the parent coiled coil . Our results show that a substantially novel backbone structure is possible within the allowed regions of the Ramachandran space with only minor mutations to a known fold . 
Hemoglobin ( Hb ) represents a model protein to study molecular adaptation in vertebrates . Although both affinity and cooperativity of oxygen binding to Hb affect tissue oxygen delivery , only the former was thought to determine molecular adaptations of Hb . Here , we suggest that Hb affinity and cooperativity reflect evolutionary and physiological adaptions that optimized tissue oxygen delivery . To test this hypothesis , we derived the relationship between the Hill coefficient and the relative affinity and conformational changes parameters of the Monod-Wymann-Changeux allosteric model and graphed the ‘biophysical Hill landscape’ describing this relation . We found that mammalian Hb cooperativity values all reside on a ridge of maximum cooperativity along this landscape that allows for both gross- and fine-tuning of tissue oxygen unloading to meet the distinct metabolic requirements of mammalian tissues for oxygen . Our findings reveal the mechanism underlying body size-related adaptation of mammalian Hb . The generality and implications of our findings are discussed . 
We report a functional switching valve within the female genitalia of the Brazilian cave insect Neotrogla . The valve complex is composed of two plate-like sclerites , a closure element , and in-and-outflow canals . Females have a penis-like intromittent organ to coercively anchor males and obtain voluminous semen . The semen is packed in a capsule , whose formation is initiated by seminal injection . It is not only used for fertilization but also consumed by the female as nutrition . The valve complex has two slots for insemination so that Neotrogla can continue mating while the first slot is occupied . In conjunction with the female penis , this switching valve is a morphological novelty enabling females to compete for seminal gifts in their nutrient-poor cave habitats through long copulation times and multiple seminal injections . The evolution of this switching valve may have been a prerequisite for the reversal of the intromittent organ in Neotrogla . 
Previous studies tracking AMPA receptor ( AMPAR ) diffusion at synapses observed a large mobile extrasynaptic AMPAR pool . Using super-resolution microscopy , we examined how fluorophore size and photostability affected AMPAR trafficking outside of , and within , post-synaptic densities ( PSDs ) from rats . Organic fluorescent dyes ( ≈4 nm ) , quantum dots , either small ( ≈10 nm diameter; sQDs ) or big ( >20 nm; bQDs ) , were coupled to AMPARs via different-sized linkers . We find that >90% of AMPARs labeled with fluorescent dyes or sQDs were diffusing in confined nanodomains in PSDs , which were stable for 15 min or longer . Less than 10% of sQD-AMPARs were extrasynaptic and highly mobile . In contrast , 5–10% of bQD-AMPARs were in PSDs and 90–95% were extrasynaptic as previously observed . Contrary to the hypothesis that AMPAR entry is limited by the occupancy of open PSD ‘slots’ , our findings suggest that AMPARs rapidly enter stable ‘nanodomains’ in PSDs with lifetime >15 min , and do not accumulate in extrasynaptic membranes . 
Histone acetylation and deposition of H2A . Z variant are integral aspects of active transcription . In Drosophila , the single DOMINO chromatin regulator complex is thought to combine both activities via an unknown mechanism . Here we show that alternative isoforms of the DOMINO nucleosome remodeling ATPase , DOM-A and DOM-B , directly specify two distinct multi-subunit complexes . Both complexes are necessary for transcriptional regulation but through different mechanisms . The DOM-B complex incorporates H2A . V ( the fly ortholog of H2A . Z ) genome-wide in an ATP-dependent manner , like the yeast SWR1 complex . The DOM-A complex , instead , functions as an ATP-independent histone acetyltransferase complex similar to the yeast NuA4 , targeting lysine 12 of histone H4 . Our work provides an instructive example of how different evolutionary strategies lead to similar functional separation . In yeast and humans , nucleosome remodeling and histone acetyltransferase complexes originate from gene duplication and paralog specification . Drosophila generates the same diversity by alternative splicing of a single gene . 
Membrane nanodomains have been implicated in Ras signaling , but what these domains are and how they interact with Ras remain obscure . Here , using single particle tracking with photoactivated localization microscopy ( spt-PALM ) and detailed trajectory analysis , we show that distinct membrane domains dictate KRasG12D ( an active KRas mutant ) diffusion and trafficking in U2OS cells . KRasG12D exhibits an immobile state in ~70 nm domains , each embedded in a larger domain ( ~200 nm ) that confers intermediate mobility , while the rest of the membrane supports fast diffusion . Moreover , KRasG12D is continuously removed from the membrane via the immobile state and replenished to the fast state , reminiscent of Ras internalization and recycling . Importantly , both the diffusion and trafficking properties of KRasG12D remain invariant over a broad range of protein expression levels . Our results reveal how membrane organization dictates membrane diffusion and trafficking of Ras and offer new insight into the spatial regulation of Ras signaling . 
This is an analysis of how magnetic fields affect biological molecules and cells . It was prompted by a series of prominent reports regarding magnetism in biological systems . The first claims to have identified a protein complex that acts like a compass needle to guide magnetic orientation in animals ( Qin et al . , 2016 ) . Two other articles report magnetic control of membrane conductance by attaching ferritin to an ion channel protein and then tugging the ferritin or heating it with a magnetic field ( Stanley et al . , 2015; Wheeler et al . , 2016 ) . Here I argue that these claims conflict with basic laws of physics . The discrepancies are large: from 5 to 10 log units . If the reported phenomena do in fact occur , they must have causes entirely different from the ones proposed by the authors . The paramagnetic nature of protein complexes is found to seriously limit their utility for engineering magnetically sensitive cells . 
Individuals with congenital amusia have a lifelong history of unreliable pitch processing . Accordingly , they downweight pitch cues during speech perception and instead rely on other dimensions such as duration . We investigated the neural basis for this strategy . During fMRI , individuals with amusia ( N = 15 ) and controls ( N = 15 ) read sentences where a comma indicated a grammatical phrase boundary . They then heard two sentences spoken that differed only in pitch and/or duration cues and selected the best match for the written sentence . Prominent reductions in functional connectivity were detected in the amusia group between left prefrontal language-related regions and right hemisphere pitch-related regions , which reflected the between-group differences in cue weights in the same groups of listeners . Connectivity differences between these regions were not present during a control task . Our results indicate that the reliability of perceptual dimensions is linked with functional connectivity between frontal and perceptual regions and suggest a compensatory mechanism . 
NCOA4 is a selective cargo receptor for the autophagic turnover of ferritin , a process critical for regulation of intracellular iron bioavailability . However , how ferritinophagy flux is controlled and the roles of NCOA4 in iron-dependent processes are poorly understood . Through analysis of the NCOA4-FTH1 interaction , we demonstrate that direct association via a key surface arginine in FTH1 and a C-terminal element in NCOA4 is required for delivery of ferritin to the lysosome via autophagosomes . Moreover , NCOA4 abundance is under dual control via autophagy and the ubiquitin proteasome system . Ubiquitin-dependent NCOA4 turnover is promoted by excess iron and involves an iron-dependent interaction between NCOA4 and the HERC2 ubiquitin ligase . In zebrafish and cultured cells , NCOA4 plays an essential role in erythroid differentiation . This work reveals the molecular nature of the NCOA4-ferritin complex and explains how intracellular iron levels modulate NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy in cells and in an iron-dependent physiological setting . 
ISG15 is an interferon-stimulated , linear di-ubiquitin-like protein , with anti-viral activity . The role of ISG15 during bacterial infection remains elusive . We show that ISG15 expression in nonphagocytic cells is dramatically induced upon Listeria infection . Surprisingly this induction can be type I interferon independent and depends on the cytosolic surveillance pathway , which senses bacterial DNA and signals through STING , TBK1 , IRF3 and IRF7 . Most importantly , we observed that ISG15 expression restricts Listeria infection in vitro and in vivo . We made use of stable isotope labeling in tissue culture ( SILAC ) to identify ISGylated proteins that could be responsible for the protective effect . Strikingly , infection or overexpression of ISG15 leads to ISGylation of ER and Golgi proteins , which correlates with increased secretion of cytokines known to counteract infection . Together , our data reveal a previously uncharacterized ISG15-dependent restriction of Listeria infection , reinforcing the view that ISG15 is a key component of the innate immune response . 
Temporal experience of odor gradients is important in spatial orientation of animals . The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster exhibits robust odor-guided behaviors in an odor gradient field . In order to investigate how early olfactory circuits process temporal variation of olfactory stimuli , we subjected flies to precisely defined odor concentration waveforms and examined spike patterns of olfactory sensory neurons ( OSNs ) and projection neurons ( PNs ) . We found a significant temporal transformation between OSN and PN spike patterns , manifested by the PN output strongly signaling the OSN spike rate and its rate of change . A simple two-dimensional model admitting the OSN spike rate and its rate of change as inputs closely predicted the PN output . When cascaded with the rate-of-change encoding by OSNs , PNs primarily signal the acceleration and the rate of change of dynamic odor stimuli to higher brain centers , thereby enabling animals to reliably respond to the onsets of odor concentrations . 
