Fleas can transmit Yersinia pestis by two mechanisms , early-phase transmission ( EPT ) and biofilm-dependent transmission ( BDT ) . Transmission efficiency varies among flea species and the results from different studies have not always been consistent . One complicating variable is the species of rodent blood used for the infectious blood meal . To gain insight into the mechanism of EPT and the effect that host blood has on it , fleas were fed bacteremic mouse , rat , guinea pig , or gerbil blood; and the location and characteristics of the infection in the digestive tract and transmissibility of Y . pestis were assessed 1 to 3 days after infection . Surprisingly , 10–28% of two rodent flea species fed bacteremic rat or guinea pig blood refluxed a portion of the infected blood meal into the esophagus within 24 h of feeding . We term this phenomenon post-infection esophageal reflux ( PIER ) . In contrast , PIER was rarely observed in rodent fleas fed bacteremic mouse or gerbil blood . PIER correlated with the accumulation of a dense mixed aggregate of Y . pestis , red blood cell stroma , and oxyhemoglobin crystals that filled the proventriculus . At their next feeding , fleas with PIER were 3–25 times more likely to appear partially blocked , with fresh blood retained within the esophagus , than were fleas without PIER . Three days after feeding on bacteremic rat blood , groups of Oropsylla montana transmitted significantly more CFU than did groups infected using mouse blood
Endogenous retroviruses ( ERVs ) are remnants of ancient retroviral infections of the host germline transmitted vertically from generation to generation . It is hypothesized that some ERVs are used by the host as restriction factors to block the infection of pathogenic retroviruses . Indeed , some ERVs efficiently interfere with the replication of related exogenous retroviruses . However , data suggesting that these mechanisms have influenced the coevolution of endogenous and/or exogenous retroviruses and their hosts have been more difficult to obtain . Sheep are an interesting model system to study retrovirus-host coevolution because of the coexistence in this animal species of two exogenous ( i . e . , horizontally transmitted ) oncogenic retroviruses , Jaagsiekte sheep retrovirus and Enzootic nasal tumor virus , with highly related and biologically active endogenous retroviruses ( enJSRVs ) . Here , we isolated and characterized the evolutionary history and molecular virology of 27 enJSRV proviruses . enJSRVs have been integrating in the host genome for the last 5–7 million y . Two enJSRV proviruses ( enJS56A1 and enJSRV-20 ) , which entered the host genome within the last 3 million y ( before and during speciation within the genus Ovis ) , acquired in two temporally distinct events a defective Gag polyprotein resulting in a transdominant phenotype able to block late replication steps of related exogenous retroviruses . Both transdominant proviruses became fixed in the hos
The Drosophila embryonic gonad is assembled from two distinct cell types , the Primordial Germ Cells ( PGCs ) and the Somatic Gonadal Precursor cells ( SGPs ) . The PGCs form at the posterior of blastoderm stage embryos and are subsequently carried inside the embryo during gastrulation . To reach the SGPs , the PGCs must traverse the midgut wall and then migrate through the mesoderm . A combination of local repulsive cues and attractive signals emanating from the SGPs guide migration . We have investigated the role of the hedgehog ( hh ) pathway gene shifted ( shf ) in directing PGC migration . shf encodes a secreted protein that facilitates the long distance transmission of Hh through the proteoglycan matrix after it is released from basolateral membranes of Hh expressing cells in the wing imaginal disc . shf is expressed in the gonadal mesoderm , and loss- and gain-of-function experiments demonstrate that it is required for PGC migration . Previous studies have established that the hmgcr-dependent isoprenoid biosynthetic pathway plays a pivotal role in generating the PGC attractant both by the SGPs and by other tissues when hmgcr is ectopically expressed . We show that production of this PGC attractant depends upon shf as well as a second hh pathway gene gγ1 . Further linking the PGC attractant to Hh , we present evidence indicating that ectopic expression of hmgcr in the nervous system promotes the release/transmission of the Hh ligand from these cells into and through the
Recently , we presented a study of adult neurogenesis in a simplified hippocampal memory model . The network was required to encode and decode memory patterns despite changing input statistics . We showed that additive neurogenesis was a more effective adaptation strategy compared to neuronal turnover and conventional synaptic plasticity as it allowed the network to respond to changes in the input statistics while preserving representations of earlier environments . Here we extend our model to include realistic , spatially driven input firing patterns in the form of grid cells in the entorhinal cortex . We compare network performance across a sequence of spatial environments using three distinct adaptation strategies: conventional synaptic plasticity , where the network is of fixed size but the connectivity is plastic; neuronal turnover , where the network is of fixed size but units in the network may die and be replaced; and additive neurogenesis , where the network starts out with fewer initial units but grows over time . We confirm that additive neurogenesis is a superior adaptation strategy when using realistic , spatially structured input patterns . We then show that a more biologically plausible neurogenesis rule that incorporates cell death and enhanced plasticity of new granule cells has an overall performance significantly better than any one of the three individual strategies operating alone . This adaptation rule can be tailored to maximise performance of the netwo
Understanding the transcriptional regulation of pluripotent cells is of fundamental interest and will greatly inform efforts aimed at directing differentiation of embryonic stem ( ES ) cells or reprogramming somatic cells . We first analyzed the transcriptional profiles of mouse ES cells and primordial germ cells and identified genes upregulated in pluripotent cells both in vitro and in vivo . These genes are enriched for roles in transcription , chromatin remodeling , cell cycle , and DNA repair . We developed a novel computational algorithm , CompMoby , which combines analyses of sequences both aligned and non-aligned between different genomes with a probabilistic segmentation model to systematically predict short DNA motifs that regulate gene expression . CompMoby was used to identify conserved overrepresented motifs in genes upregulated in pluripotent cells . We show that the motifs are preferentially active in undifferentiated mouse ES and embryonic germ cells in a sequence-specific manner , and that they can act as enhancers in the context of an endogenous promoter . Importantly , the activity of the motifs is conserved in human ES cells . We further show that the transcription factor NF-Y specifically binds to one of the motifs , is differentially expressed during ES cell differentiation , and is required for ES cell proliferation . This study provides novel insights into the transcriptional regulatory networks of pluripotent cells . Our results suggest that this syste
The current model of hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) production involves the assembly of virions on or near the surface of lipid droplets , envelopment at the ER in association with components of VLDL synthesis , and egress via the secretory pathway . However , the cellular requirements for and a mechanistic understanding of HCV secretion are incomplete at best . We combined an RNA interference ( RNAi ) analysis of host factors for infectious HCV secretion with the development of live cell imaging of HCV core trafficking to gain a detailed understanding of HCV egress . RNAi studies identified multiple components of the secretory pathway , including ER to Golgi trafficking , lipid and protein kinases that regulate budding from the trans-Golgi network ( TGN ) , VAMP1 vesicles and adaptor proteins , and the recycling endosome . Our results support a model wherein HCV is infectious upon envelopment at the ER and exits the cell via the secretory pathway . We next constructed infectious HCV with a tetracysteine ( TC ) tag insertion in core ( TC-core ) to monitor the dynamics of HCV core trafficking in association with its cellular cofactors . In order to isolate core protein movements associated with infectious HCV secretion , only trafficking events that required the essential HCV assembly factor NS2 were quantified . TC-core traffics to the cell periphery along microtubules and this movement can be inhibited by nocodazole . Sub-populations of TC-core localize to the Golgi and co-traffi
Secondary amphiphilicity is inherent to the secondary structural elements of proteins . By forming energetically favorable contacts with each other these amphiphilic building blocks give rise to the formation of a tertiary structure . Small proteins and peptides , on the other hand , are usually too short to form multiple structural elements and cannot stabilize them internally . Therefore , these molecules are often found to be structurally ambiguous up to the point of a large degree of intrinsic disorder in solution . Consequently , their conformational preference is particularly susceptible to environmental conditions such as pH , salts , or presence of interfaces . In this study we use molecular dynamics simulations to analyze the conformational behavior of two synthetic peptides , LKKLLKLLKKLLKL ( LK ) and EAALAEALAEALAE ( EALA ) , with built-in secondary amphiphilicity upon forming an alpha-helix . We use these model peptides to systematically study their aggregation and the influence of macroscopic and molecular interfaces on their conformational preferences . We show that the peptides are neither random coils in bulk water nor fully formed alpha helices , but adopt multiple conformations and secondary structure elements with short lifetimes . These provide a basis for conformation-selection and population-shift upon environmental changes . Differences in these peptides’ response to macroscopic and molecular interfaces ( presented by an aggregation partner ) can be lin
Herein , we studied a virulent isolate of the leading bacterial pathogen Streptococcus pneumoniae in an infant mouse model of colonization , disease and transmission , both with and without influenza A ( IAV ) co-infection . To identify vulnerable points in the multiple steps involved in pneumococcal pathogenesis , this model was utilized for a comprehensive analysis of population bottlenecks . Our findings reveal that in the setting of IAV co-infection the organism must pass through single cell bottlenecks during bloodstream invasion from the nasopharynx within the host and in transmission between hosts . Passage through these bottlenecks was not associated with genetic adaptation by the pathogen . The bottleneck in transmission occurred between bacterial exit from one host and establishment in another explaining why the number of shed organisms in secretions is critical to overcoming it . These observations demonstrate how viral infection , and TLR-dependent innate immune responses it stimulates and that are required to control it , drive bacterial contagion . 
HIV is known to spread efficiently both in a cell-free state and from cell to cell , however the relative importance of the cell-cell transmission mode in natural infection has not yet been resolved . Likewise to what extent cell-cell transmission is vulnerable to inhibition by neutralizing antibodies and entry inhibitors remains to be determined . Here we report on neutralizing antibody activity during cell-cell transmission using specifically tailored experimental strategies which enable unambiguous discrimination between the two transmission routes . We demonstrate that the activity of neutralizing monoclonal antibodies ( mAbs ) and entry inhibitors during cell-cell transmission varies depending on their mode of action . While gp41 directed agents remain active , CD4 binding site ( CD4bs ) directed inhibitors , including the potent neutralizing mAb VRC01 , dramatically lose potency during cell-cell transmission . This implies that CD4bs mAbs act preferentially through blocking free virus transmission , while still allowing HIV to spread through cell-cell contacts . Thus providing a plausible explanation for how HIV maintains infectivity and rapidly escapes potent and broadly active CD4bs directed antibody responses in vivo . 
An increasing number of genetic variants have been identified for many complex diseases . However , it is controversial whether risk prediction based on genomic profiles will be useful clinically . Appropriate statistical measures to evaluate the performance of genetic risk prediction models are required . Previous studies have mainly focused on the use of the area under the receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve , or AUC , to judge the predictive value of genetic tests . However , AUC has its limitations and should be complemented by other measures . In this study , we develop a novel unifying statistical framework that connects a large variety of predictive indices together . We showed that , given the overall disease probability and the level of variance in total liability ( or heritability ) explained by the genetic variants , we can estimate analytically a large variety of prediction metrics , for example the AUC , the mean risk difference between cases and non-cases , the net reclassification improvement ( ability to reclassify people into high- and low-risk categories ) , the proportion of cases explained by a specific percentile of population at the highest risk , the variance of predicted risks , and the risk at any percentile . We also demonstrate how to construct graphs to visualize the performance of risk models , such as the ROC curve , the density of risks , and the predictiveness curve ( disease risk plotted against risk percentile ) . The results from
The Saccharomyces cerevisae RAD3 gene is the homolog of human XPD , an essential gene encoding a DNA helicase of the TFIIH complex involved in both nucleotide excision repair ( NER ) and transcription . Some mutant alleles of RAD3 ( rad3-101 and rad3-102 ) have partial defects in DNA repair and a strong hyper-recombination ( hyper-Rec ) phenotype . Previous studies showed that the hyper-Rec phenotype associated with rad3-101 and rad3-102 can be explained as a consequence of persistent single-stranded DNA gaps that are converted to recombinogenic double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) by replication . The systems previously used to characterize the hyper-Rec phenotype of rad3 strains do not detect the reciprocal products of mitotic recombination . We have further characterized these events using a system in which the reciprocal products of mitotic recombination are recovered . Both rad3-101 and rad3-102 elevate the frequency of reciprocal crossovers about 100-fold . Mapping of these events shows that three-quarters of these crossovers reflect DSBs formed at the same positions in both sister chromatids ( double sister-chromatid breaks , DSCBs ) . The remainder reflects DSBs formed in single chromatids ( single chromatid breaks , SCBs ) . The ratio of DSCBs to SCBs is similar to that observed for spontaneous recombination events in wild-type cells . We mapped 216 unselected genomic alterations throughout the genome including crossovers , gene conversions , deletions , and duplications . 
A budget proposal to stop the U . S . Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) funding in surveillance and research for mosquito-borne diseases such as dengue and West Nile virus has the potential to leave the country ill-prepared to handle new emerging diseases and manage existing ones . In order to demonstrate the consequences of such a measure , if implemented , we evaluated the impact of delayed control responses to dengue epidemics ( a likely scenario emerging from the proposed CDC budget cut ) in an economically developed urban environment . We used a mathematical model to generate hypothetical scenarios of delayed response to a dengue introduction ( a consequence of halted mosquito surveillance ) in the City of Cairns , Queensland , Australia . We then coupled the results of such a model with mosquito surveillance and case management costs to estimate the cumulative costs of each response scenario . Our study shows that halting mosquito surveillance can increase the management costs of epidemics by up to an order of magnitude in comparison to a strategy with sustained surveillance and early case detection . Our analysis shows that the total costs of preparedness through surveillance are far lower than the ones needed to respond to the introduction of vector-borne pathogens , even without consideration of the cost in human lives and well-being . More specifically , our findings provide a science-based justification for the re-assessment of the current proposal
Insulator or enhancer-blocking elements are proposed to play an important role in the regulation of transcription by preventing inappropriate enhancer/promoter interaction . The zinc-finger protein CTCF is well studied in vertebrates as an enhancer blocking factor , but Drosophila CTCF has only been characterised recently . To date only one endogenous binding location for CTCF has been identified in the Drosophila genome , the Fab-8 insulator in the Abdominal-B locus in the Bithorax complex ( BX-C ) . We carried out chromatin immunopurification coupled with genomic microarray analysis to identify CTCF binding sites within representative regions of the Drosophila genome , including the 3-Mb Adh region , the BX-C , and the Antennapedia complex . Location of in vivo CTCF binding within these regions enabled us to construct a robust CTCF binding-site consensus sequence . CTCF binding sites identified in the BX-C map precisely to the known insulator elements Mcp , Fab-6 , and Fab-8 . Other CTCF binding sites correlate with boundaries of regulatory domains allowing us to locate three additional presumptive insulator elements; “Fab-2 , ” “Fab-3 , ” and “Fab-4 . ” With the exception of Fab-7 , our data indicate that CTCF is directly associated with all known or predicted insulators in the BX-C , suggesting that the functioning of these insulators involves a common CTCF-dependent mechanism . Comparison of the locations of the CTCF sites with characterised Polycomb target sites and his
Ebolaviruses , highly lethal zoonotic pathogens , possess longer genomes than most other non-segmented negative-strand RNA viruses due in part to long 5′ and 3′ untranslated regions ( UTRs ) present in the seven viral transcriptional units . To date , specific functions have not been assigned to these UTRs . With reporter assays , we demonstrated that the Zaire ebolavirus ( EBOV ) 5′-UTRs lack internal ribosomal entry site function . However , the 5′-UTRs do differentially regulate cap-dependent translation when placed upstream of a GFP reporter gene . Most dramatically , the 5′-UTR derived from the viral polymerase ( L ) mRNA strongly suppressed translation of GFP compared to a β-actin 5′-UTR . The L 5′-UTR is one of four viral genes to possess upstream AUGs ( uAUGs ) , and ablation of each uAUG enhanced translation of the primary ORF ( pORF ) , most dramatically in the case of the L 5′-UTR . The L uAUG was sufficient to initiate translation , is surrounded by a “weak” Kozak sequence and suppressed pORF translation in a position-dependent manner . Under conditions where eIF2α was phosphorylated , the presence of the uORF maintained translation of the L pORF , indicating that the uORF modulates L translation in response to cellular stress . To directly address the role of the L uAUG in virus replication , a recombinant EBOV was generated in which the L uAUG was mutated to UCG . Strikingly , mutating two nucleotides outside of previously-defined protein coding and cis-acting r
Studies of the furious and paralytic forms of canine rabies at the early stage of disease have shown a more rapid viral colonization of the cerebral hemispheres in the furious form , as measured by viral antigen within neuronal cell bodies and viral RNA levels . Measurement of cellular processes separate from neuronal cell body provides a visual record of the spread of rabies virus which occurs across synapses . In this study , the amount of rabies viral antigen within cell processes was quantitatively assessed by image analysis in a cohort of naturally rabies infected non-vaccinated dogs ( 5 furious and 5 paralytic ) that were sacrificed shortly after developing illness . Measurements were taken at different levels of the spinal cord , brain stem , and cerebrum . Results were compared to the amount of rabies viral antigen in neuronal cell bodies . Generally , the amount of rabies viral antigen in cell processes decreased in a rostral direction , following the pattern for the amount of rabies viral antigen in neuronal cell bodies and the percentage of involved cell bodies . However , there was a delay in cell process involvement following cell body involvement , consistent with replication occurring in the cell body region and subsequent transport out to cell processes . Greater amounts of antigen were seen in cell processes in dogs with the furious compared to paralytic form , at all anatomic levels examined . This difference was even evident when comparing ( 1 ) neurons wit
Replication fork integrity , which is essential for the maintenance of genome stability , is monitored by checkpoint-mediated phosphorylation events . 14-3-3 proteins are able to bind phosphorylated proteins and were shown to play an undefined role under DNA replication stress . Exonuclease 1 ( Exo1 ) processes stalled replication forks in checkpoint-defective yeast cells . We now identify 14-3-3 proteins as in vivo interaction partners of Exo1 , both in yeast and mammalian cells . Yeast 14-3-3–deficient cells fail to induce Mec1–dependent Exo1 hyperphosphorylation and accumulate Exo1–dependent ssDNA gaps at stalled forks , as revealed by electron microscopy . This leads to persistent checkpoint activation and exacerbated recovery defects . Moreover , using DNA bi-dimensional electrophoresis , we show that 14-3-3 proteins promote fork progression under limiting nucleotide concentrations . We propose that 14-3-3 proteins assist in controlling the phosphorylation status of Exo1 and additional unknown targets , promoting fork progression , stability , and restart in response to DNA replication stress . 
Polyarthritis and rash caused by Sindbis virus ( SINV ) , was first recognised in northern Europe about 50 years ago and is known as Ockelbo disease in Sweden and Pogosta disease in Finland . This mosquito-borne virus occurs mainly in tropical and sub-tropical countries , and in northern Europe it is suggested to cause regularly reoccurring outbreaks . Here a seven-year cycle of SINV outbreaks has been referred to in scientific papers , although the hypothesis is based solely on reported human cases . In the search for a more objective outbreak signal , we evaluated mosquito abundance and SINV prevalence in vector mosquitoes from an endemic area in central Sweden . Vector mosquitoes collected in the River Dalälven floodplains during the years before , during , and after the hypothesised 2002 outbreak year were assayed for virus on cell culture . Obtained isolates were partially sequenced , and the nucleotide sequences analysed using Bayesian maximum clade credibility and median joining network analysis . Only one SINV strain was recovered in 2001 , and 4 strains in 2003 , while 15 strains were recovered in 2002 with significantly increased infection rates in both the enzootic and the bridge-vectors . In 2002 , the Maximum Likelihood Estimated infection rates were 10 . 0/1000 in the enzootic vectors Culex torrentium/pipiens , and 0 . 62/1000 in the bridge-vector Aedes cinereus , compared to 4 . 9/1000 and 0 . 0/1000 in 2001 and 0 . 0/1000 and 0 . 32/1000 in 2003 Sequence analy
With the post-genomic era came a dramatic increase in high-throughput technologies , of which transcriptional profiling by microarrays was one of the most popular . One application of this technology is to identify genes that are differentially expressed in response to different environmental conditions . These experiments are constructed under the assumption that the differentially expressed genes are functionally important in the environment where they are induced . However , whether differential expression is predictive of functional importance has yet to be tested . Here we have addressed this expectation by employing Caenorhabditis elegans as a model for the interaction of native soil nematode taxa and soil bacteria . Using transcriptional profiling , we identified candidate genes regulated in response to different bacteria isolated in association with grassland nematodes or from grassland soils . Many of the regulated candidate genes are predicted to affect metabolism and innate immunity suggesting similar genes could influence nematode community dynamics in natural systems . Using mutations that inactivate 21 of the identified genes , we showed that most contribute to lifespan and/or fitness in a given bacterial environment . Although these bacteria may not be natural food sources for C . elegans , we show that changes in food source , as can occur in environmental disturbance , can have a large effect on gene expression , with important consequences for fitness . More
Centromeres are the attachment points between the genome and the cytoskeleton: centromeres bind to kinetochores , which in turn bind to spindles and move chromosomes . Paradoxically , the DNA sequence of centromeres has little or no role in perpetuating kinetochores . As such they are striking examples of genetic information being transmitted in a manner that is independent of DNA sequence ( epigenetically ) . It has been found that RNA transcribed from centromeres remains bound within the kinetochore region , and this local population of RNA is thought to be part of the epigenetic marking system . Here we carried out a genetic and biochemical study of maize CENPC , a key inner kinetochore protein . We show that DNA binding is conferred by a localized region 122 amino acids long , and that the DNA-binding reaction is exquisitely sensitive to single-stranded RNA . Long , single-stranded nucleic acids strongly promote the binding of CENPC to DNA , and the types of RNAs that stabilize DNA binding match in size and character the RNAs present on kinetochores in vivo . Removal or replacement of the binding module with HIV integrase binding domain causes a partial delocalization of CENPC in vivo . The data suggest that centromeric RNA helps to recruit CENPC to the inner kinetochore by altering its DNA binding characteristics . 
Humans are a diploid species that inherit one set of chromosomes paternally and one homologous set of chromosomes maternally . Unfortunately , most human sequencing initiatives ignore this fact in that they do not directly delineate the nucleotide content of the maternal and paternal copies of the 23 chromosomes individuals possess ( i . e . , they do not ‘phase’ the genome ) often because of the costs and complexities of doing so . We compared 11 different widely-used approaches to phasing human genomes using the publicly available ‘Genome-In-A-Bottle’ ( GIAB ) phased version of the NA12878 genome as a gold standard . The phasing strategies we compared included laboratory-based assays that prepare DNA in unique ways to facilitate phasing as well as purely computational approaches that seek to reconstruct phase information from general sequencing reads and constructs or population-level haplotype frequency information obtained through a reference panel of haplotypes . To assess the performance of the 11 approaches , we used metrics that included , among others , switch error rates , haplotype block lengths , the proportion of fully phase-resolved genes , phasing accuracy and yield between pairs of SNVs . Our comparisons suggest that a hybrid or combined approach that leverages: 1 . population-based phasing using the SHAPEIT software suite , 2 . either genome-wide sequencing read data or parental genotypes , and 3 . a large reference panel of variant and haplotype frequencies 
In contrast to HIV infection in humans and SIV in macaques , SIV infection of natural hosts including sooty mangabeys ( SM ) is non-pathogenic despite robust virus replication . We identified a novel SM CCR5 allele containing a two base pair deletion ( Δ2 ) encoding a truncated molecule that is not expressed on the cell surface and does not support SIV entry in vitro . The allele was present at a 26% frequency in a large SM colony , along with 3% for a CCR5Δ24 deletion allele that also abrogates surface expression . Overall , 8% of animals were homozygous for defective CCR5 alleles and 41% were heterozygous . The mutant allele was also present in wild SM in West Africa . CD8+ and CD4+ T cells displayed a gradient of CCR5 expression across genotype groups , which was highly significant for CD8+ cells . Remarkably , the prevalence of natural SIVsmm infection was not significantly different in animals lacking functional CCR5 compared to heterozygous and homozygous wild-type animals . Furthermore , animals lacking functional CCR5 had robust plasma viral loads , which were only modestly lower than wild-type animals . SIVsmm primary isolates infected both homozygous mutant and wild-type PBMC in a CCR5-independent manner in vitro , and Envs from both CCR5-null and wild-type infected animals used CXCR6 , GPR15 and GPR1 in addition to CCR5 in transfected cells . These data clearly indicate that SIVsmm relies on CCR5-independent entry pathways in SM that are homozygous for defective CC
Individuals choose their mates so as to maximize reproductive success , and one important component of this choice is assessment of traits reflecting mate quality . Little is known about why specific traits are used for mate quality assessment nor about how they reflect it . We have previously shown that global manipulation of insulin signaling , a nutrient-sensing pathway governing investment in survival versus reproduction , affects female sexual attractiveness in the fruit fly , Drosophila melanogaster . Here we demonstrate that these effects on attractiveness derive from insulin signaling in the fat body and ovarian follicle cells , whose signals are integrated by pheromone-producing cells called oenocytes . Functional ovaries were required for global insulin signaling effects on attractiveness , and manipulations of insulin signaling specifically in late follicle cells recapitulated effects of global manipulations . Interestingly , modulation of insulin signaling in the fat body produced opposite effects on attractiveness , suggesting a competitive relationship with the ovary . Furthermore , all investigated tissue-specific insulin signaling manipulations that changed attractiveness also changed fecundity in the corresponding direction , pointing to insulin pathway activity as a reliable link between fecundity and attractiveness cues . The cues themselves , cuticular hydrocarbons , responded distinctly to fat body and follicle cell manipulations , indicating independent 
Breast cancers that are “triple-negative” for the clinical markers ESR1 , PGR , and HER2 typically belong to the Basal-like molecular subtype . Defective Rb , p53 , and Brca1 pathways are each associated with triple-negative and Basal-like subtypes . Our mouse genetic studies demonstrate that the combined inactivation of Rb and p53 pathways is sufficient to suppress the physiological cell death of mammary involution . Furthermore , concomitant inactivation of all three pathways in mammary epithelium has an additive effect on tumor latency and predisposes highly penetrant , metastatic adenocarcinomas . The tumors are poorly differentiated and have histologic features that are common among human Brca1-mutated tumors , including heterogeneous morphology , metaplasia , and necrosis . Gene expression analyses demonstrate that the tumors share attributes of both Basal-like and Claudin-low signatures , two molecular subtypes encompassed by the broader , triple-negative class defined by clinical markers . 
Pathogen-associated secretion systems translocate numerous effector proteins into eukaryotic host cells to coordinate cellular processes important for infection . Spatiotemporal regulation is therefore important for modulating distinct activities of effectors at different stages of infection . Here we provide the first evidence of “metaeffector , ” a designation for an effector protein that regulates the function of another effector within the host cell . Legionella LubX protein functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase that hijacks the host proteasome to specifically target the bacterial effector protein SidH for degradation . Delayed delivery of LubX to the host cytoplasm leads to the shutdown of SidH within the host cells at later stages of infection . This demonstrates a sophisticated level of coevolution between eukaryotic cells and L . pneumophila involving an effector that functions as a key regulator to temporally coordinate the function of a cognate effector protein . 
The inference of regulatory interactions and quantitative models of gene regulation from time-series transcriptomics data has been extensively studied and applied to a range of problems in drug discovery , cancer research , and biotechnology . The application of existing methods is commonly based on implicit assumptions on the biological processes under study . First , the measurements of mRNA abundance obtained in transcriptomics experiments are taken to be representative of protein concentrations . Second , the observed changes in gene expression are assumed to be solely due to transcription factors and other specific regulators , while changes in the activity of the gene expression machinery and other global physiological effects are neglected . While convenient in practice , these assumptions are often not valid and bias the reverse engineering process . Here we systematically investigate , using a combination of models and experiments , the importance of this bias and possible corrections . We measure in real time and in vivo the activity of genes involved in the FliA-FlgM module of the E . coli motility network . From these data , we estimate protein concentrations and global physiological effects by means of kinetic models of gene expression . Our results indicate that correcting for the bias of commonly-made assumptions improves the quality of the models inferred from the data . Moreover , we show by simulation that these improvements are expected to be even stronger 
Soil-transmitted helminth ( STH ) infections ( i . e . , Ascaris lumbricoides , hookworm , and Trichuris trichiura ) affect more than a billion people . Preventive chemotherapy ( i . e . , repeated administration of anthelmintic drugs to at-risk populations ) , is the mainstay of control . This strategy , however , does not prevent reinfection . We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to assess patterns and dynamics of STH reinfection after drug treatment . We systematically searched PubMed , ISI Web of Science , EMBASE , Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews , China National Knowledge Infrastructure , WanFang Database , Chinese Scientific Journal Database , and Google Scholar . Information on study year , country , sample size , age of participants , diagnostic method , drug administration strategy , prevalence and intensity of infection pre- and posttreatment , cure and egg reduction rate , evaluation period posttreatment , and adherence was extracted . Pooled risk ratios from random-effects models were used to assess the risk of STH reinfection after treatment . Our protocol is available on PROSPERO , registration number: CRD42011001678 . From 154 studies identified , 51 were included and 24 provided STH infection rates pre- and posttreatment , whereas 42 reported determinants of predisposition to reinfection . At 3 , 6 , and 12 months posttreatment , A . lumbricoides prevalence reached 26% ( 95% confidence interval ( CI ) : 16–43% ) , 68% ( 95% CI: 60–76% ) a
Prompt post-exposure prophylaxis ( PEP ) is essential in preventing the fatal onset of disease in persons exposed to rabies . Unfortunately , life-saving rabies vaccines and biologicals are often neither accessible nor affordable , particularly to the poorest sectors of society who are most at risk and upon whom the largest burden of rabies falls . Increasing accessibility , reducing costs and preventing delays in delivery of PEP should therefore be prioritized . We analyzed different PEP vaccination regimens and evaluated their relative costs and benefits to bite victims and healthcare providers . We found PEP vaccination to be an extremely cost-effective intervention ( from $200 to less than $60/death averted ) . Switching from intramuscular ( IM ) administration of PEP to equally efficacious intradermal ( ID ) regimens was shown to result in significant savings in the volume of vaccine required to treat the same number of patients , which could mitigate vaccine shortages , and would dramatically reduce the costs of implementing PEP . We present financing mechanisms that would make PEP more affordable and accessible , could help subsidize the cost for those most in need , and could even support new and existing rabies control and prevention programs . We conclude that a universal switch to ID delivery would improve the affordability and accessibility of PEP for bite victims , leading to a likely reduction in human rabies deaths , as well as being economical for healthcare p
Uganda has active foci of both chronic and acute HAT with the acute zoonotic form of disease classically considered to be restricted to southeast Uganda , while the focus of the chronic form of HAT was confined to the northwest of the country . Acute HAT has however been migrating from its traditional disease focus , spreading rapidly to new districts , a spread linked to movement of infected cattle following restocking . Cattle act as long-term reservoirs of human infective T . b . rhodesiense showing few signs of morbidity , yet posing a significant risk to human health . It is important to understand the relationship between infected cattle and infected individuals so that an appropriate response can be made to the risk posed to the community from animals infected with human pathogens in a village setting . This paper examines the relationship between human T . b . rhodesiense infection and human infective and non-human T . brucei s . l . circulating in cattle at village level in Kaberamaido and Dokolo Districts , Uganda . The study was undertaken in villages that had reported a case of sleeping sickness in the six months prior to sample collection and those villages that had never reported a case of sleeping sickness . The sleeping sickness status of the villages had a significant effect with higher odds of infection in cattle from case than from non-case villages for T . brucei s . l . ( OR: 2 . 94 , 95%CI: 1 . 38–6 . 24 ) . Cattle age had a significant effect ( p<0 . 00
Dietary restriction ( DR ) extends lifespan in various species and also slows the onset of age-related diseases . Previous studies from flies and yeast have demonstrated that the target of rapamycin ( TOR ) pathway is essential for longevity phenotypes resulting from DR . TOR is a conserved protein kinase that regulates growth and metabolism in response to nutrients and growth factors . While some of the downstream targets of TOR have been implicated in regulating lifespan , it is still unclear whether additional targets of this pathway also modulate lifespan . It has been shown that the hypoxia inducible factor-1 ( HIF-1 ) is one of the targets of the TOR pathway in mammalian cells . HIF-1 is a transcription factor complex that plays key roles in oxygen homeostasis , tumor formation , glucose metabolism , cell survival , and inflammatory response . Here , we describe a novel role for HIF-1 in modulating lifespan extension by DR in Caenorhabditis elegans . We find that HIF-1 deficiency results in extended lifespan , which overlaps with that by inhibition of the RSKS-1/S6 kinase , a key component of the TOR pathway . Using a modified DR method based on variation of bacterial food concentrations on solid agar plates , we find that HIF-1 modulates longevity in a nutrient-dependent manner . The hif-1 loss-of-function mutant extends lifespan under rich nutrient conditions but fails to show lifespan extension under DR . Conversely , a mutation in egl-9 , which increases HIF-1 activ
The unique capability of acetogens to ferment a broad range of substrates renders them ideal candidates for the biotechnological production of commodity chemicals . In particular the ability to grow with H2:CO2 or syngas ( a mixture of H2/CO/CO2 ) makes these microorganisms ideal chassis for sustainable bioproduction . However , advanced design strategies for acetogens are currently hampered by incomplete knowledge about their physiology and our inability to accurately predict phenotypes . Here we describe the reconstruction of a novel genome-scale model of metabolism and macromolecular synthesis ( ME-model ) to gain new insights into the biology of the model acetogen Clostridium ljungdahlii . The model represents the first ME-model of a Gram-positive bacterium and captures all major central metabolic , amino acid , nucleotide , lipid , major cofactors , and vitamin synthesis pathways as well as pathways to synthesis RNA and protein molecules necessary to catalyze these reactions , thus significantly broadens the scope and predictability . Use of the model revealed how protein allocation and media composition influence metabolic pathways and energy conservation in acetogens and accurately predicted secretion of multiple fermentation products . Predicting overflow metabolism is of particular interest since it enables new design strategies , e . g . the formation of glycerol , a novel product for C . ljungdahlii , thus broadening the metabolic capability for this model microbe 
Arabidopsis thaliana cryptochrome 2 ( CRY2 ) mediates light control of flowering time . CIB1 ( CRY2-interacting bHLH 1 ) specifically interacts with CRY2 in response to blue light to activate the transcription of FT ( Flowering Locus T ) . In vitro , CIB1 binds to the canonical E-box ( CACGTG , also referred to as G-box ) with much higher affinity than its interaction with non-canonical E-box ( CANNTG ) DNA sequences . However , in vivo , CIB1 binds to the chromatin region of the FT promoter , which only contains the non-canonical E-box sequences . Here , we show that CRY2 also interacts with at least CIB5 , in response to blue light , but not in darkness or in response to other wavelengths of light . Our genetic analysis demonstrates that CIB1 , CIB2 , CIB4 , and CIB5 act redundantly to activate the transcription of FT and that they are positive regulators of CRY2 mediated flowering . More importantly , CIB1 and other CIBs proteins form heterodimers , and some of the heterodimers have a higher binding affinity than the CIB homodimers to the non-canonical E-box in the in vitro DNA-binding assays . This result explains why in vitro CIB1 and other CIBs bind to the canonical E-box ( G-box ) with a higher affinity , whereas they are all associated with the non-canonical E-boxes at the FT promoter in vivo . Consistent with the hypothesis that different CIB proteins play similar roles in the CRY2-midiated blue light signaling , the expression of CIB proteins is regulated specifical
Enteric bacterial pathogens cause food borne disease , which constitutes an enormous economic and health burden . Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli ( EHEC ) causes a severe bloody diarrhea following transmission to humans through various means , including contaminated beef and vegetable products , water , or through contact with animals . EHEC also causes a potentially fatal kidney disease ( hemolytic uremic syndrome ) for which there is no effective treatment or prophylaxis . EHEC and other enteric pathogens ( e . g . , enteropathogenic E . coli ( EPEC ) , Salmonella , Shigella , Yersinia ) utilize a type III secretion system ( T3SS ) to inject virulence proteins ( effectors ) into host cells . While it is known that T3SS effectors subvert host cell function to promote diarrheal disease and bacterial transmission , in many cases , the mechanisms by which these effectors bind to host proteins and disrupt the normal function of intestinal epithelial cells have not been completely characterized . In this study , we present evidence that the E . coli O157:H7 nleH1 and nleH2 genes encode T3SS effectors that bind to the human ribosomal protein S3 ( RPS3 ) , a subunit of nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells ( NF-κB ) transcriptional complexes . NleH1 and NleH2 co-localized with RPS3 in the cytoplasm , but not in cell nuclei . The N-terminal region of both NleH1 and NleH2 was required for binding to the N-terminus of RPS3 . NleH1 and NleH2 are autophosphor
High-altitude hypoxia ( reduced inspired oxygen tension due to decreased barometric pressure ) exerts severe physiological stress on the human body . Two high-altitude regions where humans have lived for millennia are the Andean Altiplano and the Tibetan Plateau . Populations living in these regions exhibit unique circulatory , respiratory , and hematological adaptations to life at high altitude . Although these responses have been well characterized physiologically , their underlying genetic basis remains unknown . We performed a genome scan to identify genes showing evidence of adaptation to hypoxia . We looked across each chromosome to identify genomic regions with previously unknown function with respect to altitude phenotypes . In addition , groups of genes functioning in oxygen metabolism and sensing were examined to test the hypothesis that particular pathways have been involved in genetic adaptation to altitude . Applying four population genetic statistics commonly used for detecting signatures of natural selection , we identified selection-nominated candidate genes and gene regions in these two populations ( Andeans and Tibetans ) separately . The Tibetan and Andean patterns of genetic adaptation are largely distinct from one another , with both populations showing evidence of positive natural selection in different genes or gene regions . Interestingly , one gene previously known to be important in cellular oxygen sensing , EGLN1 ( also known as PHD2 ) , shows evide
Machupo virus ( MACV ) , a New World arenavirus , is the etiological agent of Bolivian hemorrhagic fever ( BHF ) . Junin virus ( JUNV ) , a close relative , causes Argentine hemorrhagic fever ( AHF ) . Previously , we reported that a recombinant , chimeric MACV ( rMACV/Cd#1-GPC ) expressing glycoprotein from the Candid#1 ( Cd#1 ) vaccine strain of JUNV is completely attenuated in a murine model and protects animals from lethal challenge with MACV . A rMACV with a single F438I substitution in the transmembrane domain ( TMD ) of GPC , which is equivalent to the F427I attenuating mutation in Cd#1 GPC , was attenuated in a murine model but genetically unstable . In addition , the TMD mutation alone was not sufficient to fully attenuate JUNV , indicating that other domains of the GPC may also contribute to the attenuation . To investigate the requirement of different domains of Cd#1 GPC for successful attenuation of MACV , we rescued several rMACVs expressing the ectodomain of GPC from Cd#1 either alone ( MCg1 ) , along with the TMD F438I substitution ( MCg2 ) , or with the TMD of Cd#1 ( MCg3 ) . All rMACVs exhibited similar growth curves in cultured cells . In mice , the MCg1 displayed significant reduction in lethality as compared with rMACV . The MCg1 was detected in brains and spleens of MCg1-infected mice and the infection was associated with tissue inflammation . On the other hand , all animals survived MCg2 and MCg3 infection without detectable levels of virus in various or
Serological tests for IgM and IgG are routinely used in clinical laboratories for the rapid diagnosis of dengue and can differentiate between primary and secondary infections . Dengue virus non-structural protein 1 ( NS1 ) has been identified as an early marker for acute dengue , and is typically present between days 1–9 post-onset of illness but following seroconversion it can be difficult to detect in serum . To evaluate the performance of a newly developed Panbio® Dengue Early Rapid test for NS1 and determine if it can improve diagnostic sensitivity when used in combination with a commercial IgM/IgG rapid test . The clinical performance of the Dengue Early Rapid was evaluated in a retrospective study in Vietnam with 198 acute laboratory-confirmed positive and 100 negative samples . The performance of the Dengue Early Rapid in combination with the IgM/IgG Rapid test was also evaluated in Malaysia with 263 laboratory-confirmed positive and 30 negative samples . In Vietnam the sensitivity and specificity of the test was 69 . 2% ( 95% CI: 62 . 8% to 75 . 6% ) and 96% ( 95% CI: 92 . 2% to 99 . 8 ) respectively . In Malaysia the performance was similar with 68 . 9% sensitivity ( 95% CI: 61 . 8% to 76 . 1% ) and 96 . 7% specificity ( 95% CI: 82 . 8% to 99 . 9% ) compared to RT-PCR . Importantly , when the Dengue Early Rapid test was used in combination with the IgM/IgG test the sensitivity increased to 93 . 0% . When the two tests were compared at each day post-onset of illness t
Toll/interleukin-1 receptor ( TIR ) domains in Toll-like receptors are essential for initiating and propagating the eukaryotic innate immune signaling cascade . Here , we investigate TirS , a Staphylococcus aureus TIR mimic that is part of a novel bacterial invasion mechanism . Its ectopic expression in eukaryotic cells inhibited TLR signaling , downregulating the NF-kB pathway through inhibition of TLR2 , TLR4 , TLR5 , and TLR9 . Skin lesions induced by the S . aureus knockout tirS mutant increased in a mouse model compared with wild-type and restored strains even though the tirS-mutant and wild-type strains did not differ in bacterial load . TirS also was associated with lower neutrophil and macrophage activity , confirming a central role in virulence attenuation through local inflammatory responses . TirS invariably localizes within the staphylococcal chromosomal cassettes ( SCC ) containing the fusC gene for fusidic acid resistance but not always carrying the mecA gene . Of note , sub-inhibitory concentration of fusidic acid increased tirS expression . Epidemiological studies identified no link between this effector and clinical presentation but showed a selective advantage with a SCCmec element with SCC fusC/tirS . Thus , two key traits determining the success and spread of bacterial infections are linked . 
Protein modifications play a major role for most biological processes in living organisms . Amino-terminal acetylation of proteins is a common modification found throughout the tree of life: the N-terminus of a nascent polypeptide chain becomes co-translationally acetylated , often after the removal of the initiating methionine residue . While the enzymes and protein complexes involved in these processes have been extensively studied , only little is known about the biological function of such N-terminal modification events . To identify common principles of N-terminal acetylation , we analyzed the amino-terminal peptides from proteins extracted from Drosophila Kc167 cells . We detected more than 1 , 200 mature protein N-termini and could show that N-terminal acetylation occurs in insects with a similar frequency as in humans . As the sole true determinant for N-terminal acetylation we could extract the ( X ) PX rule that indicates the prevention of acetylation under all circumstances . We could show that this rule can be used to genetically engineer a protein to study the biological relevance of the presence or absence of an acetyl group , thereby generating a generic assay to probe the functional importance of N-terminal acetylation . We applied the assay by expressing mutated proteins as transgenes in cell lines and in flies . Here , we present a straightforward strategy to systematically study the functional relevance of N-terminal acetylations in cells and whole organism
Exosomes can transfer genetic materials between cells . Their roles in viral infections are beginning to be appreciated . Researches have shown that exosomes released from virus-infected cells contain a variety of viral and host cellular factors that are able to modulate recipient’s cellular response and result in productive infection of the recipient host . Here , we showed that EV71 infection resulted in upregulated exosome secretion and differential packaging of the viral genomic RNA and miR-146a into exosomes . We provided evidence showing that miR-146a was preferentially enriched in exosomes while the viral RNA was not in infected cells . Moreover , the exosomes contained replication-competent EV71 RNA in complex with miR-146a , Ago2 , and GW182 and could mediate EV71 transmission independent of virus-specific receptor . The exosomal viral RNA could be transferred to and replicate in a new target cell while the exosomal miR-146a suppressed type I interferon response in the target cell , thus facilitating the viral replication . Additionally , we found that the IFN-stimulated gene factors ( ISGs ) , BST-2/tetherin , were involved in regulating EV71-induced upregulation of exosome secretion . Importantly , in vivo study showed that exosomal viral RNA exhibited differential tissue accumulation as compared to the free virus particles . Together , our findings provide evidence that exosomes secreted by EV71-infected cells selectively packaged high level miR-146a that can be f
According to recent experimental evidence , the interaction between chromatin loops , which can be characterized by three factors—connection pattern , distance between regulatory elements , and communication form , play an important role in determining the level of cell-to-cell variability in gene expression . These quantitative experiments call for a corresponding modeling effect that addresses the question of how changes in these factors affect variability at the expression level in a systematic rather than case-by-case fashion . Here we make such an effort , based on a mechanic model that maps three fundamental patterns for two interacting DNA loops into a 4–state model of stochastic transcription . We first show that in contrast to side-by-side loops , nested loops enhance mRNA expression and reduce expression noise whereas alternating loops have just opposite effects . Then , we compare effects of facilitated tracking and direct looping on gene expression . We find that the former performs better than the latter in controlling mean expression and in tuning expression noise , but this control or tuning is distance–dependent , remarkable for moderate loop lengths , and there is a limit loop length such that the difference in effect between two communication forms almost disappears . Our analysis and results justify the facilitated chromatin–looping hypothesis . 
Predicting the dynamic behavior of a large network from that of the composing modules is a central problem in systems and synthetic biology . Yet , this predictive ability is still largely missing because modules display context-dependent behavior . One cause of context-dependence is retroactivity , a phenomenon similar to loading that influences in non-trivial ways the dynamic performance of a module upon connection to other modules . Here , we establish an analysis framework for gene transcription networks that explicitly accounts for retroactivity . Specifically , a module's key properties are encoded by three retroactivity matrices: internal , scaling , and mixing retroactivity . All of them have a physical interpretation and can be computed from macroscopic parameters ( dissociation constants and promoter concentrations ) and from the modules' topology . The internal retroactivity quantifies the effect of intramodular connections on an isolated module's dynamics . The scaling and mixing retroactivity establish how intermodular connections change the dynamics of connected modules . Based on these matrices and on the dynamics of modules in isolation , we can accurately predict how loading will affect the behavior of an arbitrary interconnection of modules . We illustrate implications of internal , scaling , and mixing retroactivity on the performance of recurrent network motifs , including negative autoregulation , combinatorial regulation , two-gene clocks , the toggle sw
The 5-year survival of non-small cell lung cancer patients can be as low as 1% in advanced stages . For patients with resectable disease , the successful choice of preoperative chemotherapy is critical to eliminate micrometastasis and improve operability . In silico experimentations can suggest the optimal treatment protocol for each patient based on their own multiscale data . A determinant for reliable predictions is the a priori estimation of the drugs’ cytotoxic efficacy on cancer cells for a given treatment . In the present work a mechanistic model of cancer response to treatment is applied for the estimation of a plausible value range of the cell killing efficacy of various cisplatin-based doublet regimens . Among others , the model incorporates the cancer related mechanism of uncontrolled proliferation , population heterogeneity , hypoxia and treatment resistance . The methodology is based on the provision of tumor volumetric data at two time points , before and after or during treatment . It takes into account the effect of tumor microenvironment and cell repopulation on treatment outcome . A thorough sensitivity analysis based on one-factor-at-a-time and latin hypercube sampling/partial rank correlation coefficient approaches has established the volume growth rate and the growth fraction at diagnosis as key features for more accurate estimates . The methodology is applied on the retrospective data of thirteen patients with non-small cell lung cancer who received cisp
The mechanisms and treatment of psychomotor retardation , which includes motor and cognitive impairment , are indefinite . The Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome ( AHDS ) is an X-linked psychomotor retardation characterized by delayed development , severe intellectual disability , muscle hypotonia , and spastic paraplegia , in combination with disturbed thyroid hormone ( TH ) parameters . AHDS has been associated with mutations in the monocarboxylate transporter 8 ( mct8/slc16a2 ) gene , which is a TH transporter . In order to determine the pathophysiological mechanisms of AHDS , MCT8 knockout mice were intensively studied . Although these mice faithfully replicated the abnormal serum TH levels , they failed to exhibit the neurological and behavioral symptoms of AHDS patients . Here , we generated an mct8 mutant ( mct8−/− ) zebrafish using zinc-finger nuclease ( ZFN ) -mediated targeted gene editing system . The elimination of MCT8 decreased the expression levels of TH receptors; however , it did not affect the expression of other TH-related genes . Similar to human patients , mct8−/− larvae exhibited neurological and behavioral deficiencies . High-throughput behavioral assays demonstrated that mct8−/− larvae exhibited reduced locomotor activity , altered response to external light and dark transitions and an increase in sleep time . These deficiencies in behavioral performance were associated with altered expression of myelin-related genes and neuron-specific deficiencies in circ
Natural selection drives populations towards higher fitness , but crossing fitness valleys or plateaus may facilitate progress up a rugged fitness landscape involving epistasis . We investigate quantitatively the effect of subdividing an asexual population on the time it takes to cross a fitness valley or plateau . We focus on a generic and minimal model that includes only population subdivision into equivalent demes connected by global migration , and does not require significant size changes of the demes , environmental heterogeneity or specific geographic structure . We determine the optimal speedup of valley or plateau crossing that can be gained by subdivision , if the process is driven by the deme that crosses fastest . We show that isolated demes have to be in the sequential fixation regime for subdivision to significantly accelerate crossing . Using Markov chain theory , we obtain analytical expressions for the conditions under which optimal speedup is achieved: valley or plateau crossing by the subdivided population is then as fast as that of its fastest deme . We verify our analytical predictions through stochastic simulations . We demonstrate that subdivision can substantially accelerate the crossing of fitness valleys and plateaus in a wide range of parameters extending beyond the optimal window . We study the effect of varying the degree of subdivision of a population , and investigate the trade-off between the magnitude of the optimal speedup and the width of th
The nuclear pore complex ( NPC ) regulates molecular traffic across the nuclear envelope ( NE ) . Selective transport happens on the order of milliseconds and the length scale of tens of nanometers; however , the transport mechanism remains elusive . Central to the transport process is the hydrophobic interactions between karyopherins ( kaps ) and Phe-Gly ( FG ) repeat domains . Taking into account the polymeric nature of FG-repeats grafted on the elastic structure of the NPC , and the kap-FG hydrophobic affinity , we have established a coarse-grained model of the NPC structure that mimics nucleocytoplasmic transport . To establish a foundation for future works , the methodology and biophysical rationale behind the model is explained in details . The model predicts that the first-passage time of a 15 nm cargo-complex is about 2 . 6±0 . 13 ms with an inverse Gaussian distribution for statistically adequate number of independent Brownian dynamics simulations . Moreover , the cargo-complex is primarily attached to the channel wall where it interacts with the FG-layer as it passes through the central channel . The kap-FG hydrophobic interaction is highly dynamic and fast , which ensures an efficient translocation through the NPC . Further , almost all eight hydrophobic binding spots on kap-β are occupied simultaneously during transport . Finally , as opposed to intact NPCs , cytoplasmic filaments-deficient NPCs show a high degree of permeability to inert cargos , implying the def
Staphylococcus aureus is an opportunistic pathogen that colonizes the skin and mucosal surfaces of mammals . Persistent staphylococcal infections often involve surface-associated communities called biofilms . Here we report the discovery of a novel extracellular fibril structure that promotes S . aureus biofilm integrity . Biochemical and genetic analysis has revealed that these fibers have amyloid-like properties and consist of small peptides called phenol soluble modulins ( PSMs ) . Mutants unable to produce PSMs were susceptible to biofilm disassembly by matrix degrading enzymes and mechanical stress . Previous work has associated PSMs with biofilm disassembly , and we present data showing that soluble PSM peptides disperse biofilms while polymerized peptides do not . This work suggests the PSMs' aggregation into amyloid fibers modulates their biological activity and role in biofilms . 
The Type II Secretion System ( T2SS ) is a molecular machine that drives the secretion of fully-folded protein substrates across the bacterial outer membrane . A key element in the machinery is the secretin: an integral , multimeric outer membrane protein that forms the secretion pore . We show that three distinct forms of T2SSs can be distinguished based on the sequence characteristics of their secretin pores . Detailed comparative analysis of two of these , the Klebsiella-type and Vibrio-type , showed them to be further distinguished by the pilotin that mediates their transport and assembly into the outer membrane . We have determined the crystal structure of the novel pilotin AspS from Vibrio cholerae , demonstrating convergent evolution wherein AspS is functionally equivalent and yet structurally unrelated to the pilotins found in Klebsiella and other bacteria . AspS binds to a specific targeting sequence in the Vibrio-type secretins , enhances the kinetics of secretin assembly , and homologs of AspS are found in all species of Vibrio as well those few strains of Escherichia and Shigella that have acquired a Vibrio-type T2SS . 
Burkholderia pseudomallei is a mostly saprophytic bacterium , but can infect humans where it causes the difficult-to-manage disease melioidosis . Even with proper diagnosis and prompt therapeutic interventions mortality rates still range from >20% in Northern Australia to over 40% in Thailand . Surprisingly little is yet known about how B . pseudomallei infects , invades and survives within its hosts , and virtually nothing is known about the contribution of critical nutrients such as iron to the bacterium's pathogenesis . It was previously assumed that B . pseudomallei used iron-acquisition systems commonly found in other bacteria , for example siderophores . However , our previous discovery of a clinical isolate carrying a large chromosomal deletion missing the entire malleobactin gene cluster encoding the bacterium's major high-affinity siderophore while still being fully virulent in a murine melioidosis model suggested that other iron-acquisition systems might make contributions to virulence . Here , we deleted the major siderophore malleobactin ( mba ) and pyochelin ( pch ) gene clusters in strain 1710b and revealed a residual siderophore activity which was unrelated to other known Burkholderia siderophores such as cepabactin and cepaciachelin , and not due to increased secretion of chelators such as citrate . Deletion of the two hemin uptake loci , hmu and hem , showed that Hmu is required for utilization of hemin and hemoglobin and that Hem cannot complement a Hmu defi
Offspring of Schistosoma mansoni-infected women in schistosomiasis-endemic areas may be sensitised in-utero . This may influence their immune responsiveness to schistosome infection and schistosomiasis-associated morbidity . Effects of praziquantel treatment of S . mansoni during pregnancy on risk of S . mansoni infection among offspring , and on their immune responsiveness when they become exposed to S . mansoni , are unknown . Here we examined effects of praziquantel treatment of S . mansoni during pregnancy on prevalence of S . mansoni and immune responsiveness among offspring at age five years . In a trial in Uganda ( ISRCTN32849447 , http://www . controlled-trials . com/ISRCTN32849447/elliott ) , offspring of women treated with praziquantel or placebo during pregnancy were examined for S . mansoni infection and for cytokine and antibody responses to SWA and SEA , as well as for T cell expression of FoxP3 , at age five years . Of the 1343 children examined , 32 ( 2 . 4% ) had S . mansoni infection at age five years based on a single stool sample . Infection prevalence did not differ between children of treated or untreated mothers . Cytokine ( IFNγ , IL-5 , IL-10 and IL-13 ) and antibody ( IgG1 , Ig4 and IgE ) responses to SWA and SEA , and FoxP3 expression , were higher among infected than uninfected children . Praziquantel treatment of S . mansoni during pregnancy had no effect on immune responses , with the exception of IL-10 responses to SWA , which was higher in offs
Hox proteins play fundamental roles in controlling morphogenetic diversity along the anterior–posterior body axis of animals by regulating distinct sets of target genes . Within their rather broad expression domains , individual Hox proteins control cell diversification and pattern formation and consequently target gene expression in a highly localized manner , sometimes even only in a single cell . To achieve this high-regulatory specificity , it has been postulated that Hox proteins co-operate with other transcription factors to activate or repress their target genes in a highly context-specific manner in vivo . However , only a few of these factors have been identified . Here , we analyze the regulation of the cell death gene reaper ( rpr ) by the Hox protein Deformed ( Dfd ) and suggest that local activation of rpr expression in the anterior part of the maxillary segment is achieved through a combinatorial interaction of Dfd with at least eight functionally diverse transcriptional regulators on a minimal enhancer . It follows that context-dependent combinations of Hox proteins and other transcription factors on small , modular Hox response elements ( HREs ) could be responsible for the proper spatio-temporal expression of Hox targets . Thus , a large number of transcription factors are likely to be directly involved in Hox target gene regulation in vivo . 
The antiproliferative response to anticancer treatment is the result of concurrent responses in all cell cycle phases , extending over several cell generations , whose complexity is not captured by current methods . In the proposed experimental/computational approach , the contemporary use of time-lapse live cell microscopy and flow cytometric data supported the computer rendering of the proliferative process through the cell cycle and subsequent generations during/after treatment . The effects of treatments were modelled with modules describing the functional activity of the main pathways causing arrest , repair and cell death in each phase . A framework modelling environment was created , enabling us to apply different types of modules in each phase and test models at the complexity level justified by the available data . We challenged the method with time-course measures taken in parallel with flow cytometry and time-lapse live cell microscopy in X-ray-treated human ovarian cancer cells , spanning a wide range of doses . The most suitable model of the treatment , including the dose-response of each effect , was progressively built , combining modules with a rational strategy and fitting simultaneously all data of different doses and platforms . The final model gave for the first time the complete rendering in silico of the cycling process following X-ray exposure , providing separate and quantitative measures of the dose-dependence of G1 , S and G2M checkpoint activities i
Horizontal acquisition of DNA by bacteria dramatically increases genetic diversity and hence successful bacterial colonization of several niches , including the human host . A relevant issue is how this newly acquired DNA interacts and integrates in the regulatory networks of the bacterial cell . The global modulator H-NS targets both core genome and HGT genes and silences gene expression in response to external stimuli such as osmolarity and temperature . Here we provide evidence that H-NS discriminates and differentially modulates core and HGT DNA . As an example of this , plasmid R27-encoded H-NS protein has evolved to selectively silence HGT genes and does not interfere with core genome regulation . In turn , differential regulation of both gene lineages by resident chromosomal H-NS requires a helper protein: the Hha protein . Tight silencing of HGT DNA is accomplished by H-NS-Hha complexes . In contrast , core genes are modulated by H-NS homoligomers . Remarkably , the presence of Hha-like proteins is restricted to the Enterobacteriaceae . In addition , conjugative plasmids encoding H-NS variants have hitherto been isolated only from members of the family . Thus , the H-NS system in enteric bacteria presents unique evolutionary features . The capacity to selectively discriminate between core and HGT DNA may help to maintain horizontally transmitted DNA in silent form and may give these bacteria a competitive advantage in adapting to new environments , including host colo
HIV-1 vaccines designed to date have failed to elicit neutralizing antibodies ( Nabs ) that are capable of protecting against globally diverse HIV-1 subtypes . One relevant setting to study the development of a strong , cross-reactive Nab response is HIV-1 superinfection ( SI ) , defined as sequential infections from different source partners . SI has previously been shown to lead to a broader and more potent Nab response when compared to single infection , but it is unclear whether SI also impacts epitope specificity and if the epitopes targeted after SI differ from those targeted after single infection . Here the post-SI Nab responses were examined from 21 Kenyan women collectively exposed to subtypes A , C , and D and superinfected after a median time of ~1 . 07 years following initial infection . Plasma samples chosen for analysis were collected at a median time point ~2 . 72 years post-SI . Because previous studies of singly infected populations with broad and potent Nab responses have shown that the majority of their neutralizing activity can be mapped to 4 main epitopes on the HIV-1 Envelope , we focused on these targets , which include the CD4-binding site , a V1/V2 glycan , the N332 supersite in V3 , and the membrane proximal external region of gp41 . Using standard epitope mapping techniques that were applied to the previous cohorts , the present study demonstrates that SI did not induce a dominant Nab response to any one of these epitopes in the 21 women . Computat
Approaches based on linear mixed models ( LMMs ) have recently gained popularity for modelling population substructure and relatedness in genome-wide association studies . In the last few years , a bewildering variety of different LMM methods/software packages have been developed , but it is not always clear how ( or indeed whether ) any newly-proposed method differs from previously-proposed implementations . Here we compare the performance of several LMM approaches ( and software implementations , including EMMAX , GenABEL , FaST-LMM , Mendel , GEMMA and MMM ) via their application to a genome-wide association study of visceral leishmaniasis in 348 Brazilian families comprising 3626 individuals ( 1972 genotyped ) . The implementations differ in precise details of methodology implemented and through various user-chosen options such as the method and number of SNPs used to estimate the kinship ( relatedness ) matrix . We investigate sensitivity to these choices and the success ( or otherwise ) of the approaches in controlling the overall genome-wide error-rate for both real and simulated phenotypes . We compare the LMM results to those obtained using traditional family-based association tests ( based on transmission of alleles within pedigrees ) and to alternative approaches implemented in the software packages MQLS , ROADTRIPS and MASTOR . We find strong concordance between the results from different LMM approaches , and all are successful in controlling the genome-wide error
Transient associations among neurons are thought to underlie memory and behavior . However , little is known about how such associations occur or how they can be identified . Here we recorded ongoing local field potential ( LFP ) activity at multiple sites within the cortex of awake monkeys and organotypic cultures of cortex . We show that when the composite activity of a local neuronal group exceeds a threshold , its activity pattern , as reflected in the LFP , occurs without distortion at other cortex sites via fast synaptic transmission . These large-amplitude LFPs , which we call coherence potentials , extend up to hundreds of milliseconds and mark periods of loss-less spread of temporal and amplitude information much like action potentials at the single-cell level . However , coherence potentials have an additional degree of freedom in the diversity of their waveforms , which provides a high-dimensional parameter for encoding information and allows identification of particular associations . Such nonlinear behavior is analogous to the spread of ideas and behaviors in social networks . 
Polarized growth is maintained by both polarized exocytosis , which transports membrane components to specific locations on the cell cortex , and endocytosis , which retrieves these components before they can diffuse away . Despite functional links between these two transport pathways , they are generally considered to be separate events . Using live cell imaging , in vivo and in vitro protein binding assays , and in vitro pyrene-actin polymerization assays , we show that the yeast Rab GTPase Sec4p couples polarized exocytosis with cortical actin polymerization , which induces endocytosis . After polarized exocytosis to the plasma membrane , Sec4p binds Las17/Bee1p ( yeast Wiskott—Aldrich Syndrome protein [WASp] ) in a complex with Sla1p and Sla2p during actin patch assembly . Mutations that inactivate Sec4p , or its guanine nucleotide exchange factor ( GEF ) Sec2p , inhibit actin patch formation , whereas the activating sec4-Q79L mutation accelerates patch assembly . In vitro assays of Arp2/3-dependent actin polymerization established that GTPγS-Sec4p overrides Sla1p inhibition of Las17p-dependent actin nucleation . These results support a model in which Sec4p relocates along the plasma membrane from polarized sites of exocytic vesicle fusion to nascent sites of endocytosis . Activated Sec4p then promotes actin polymerization and triggers compensatory endocytosis , which controls surface expansion and kinetically refines cell polarization . 
Miltefosine , an anti-cancer drug that has been successfully repositioned for treatment of Leishmania infections , has recently also shown promising effects against Schistosoma spp targeting all life cycle stages of the parasite . The current study examined the effect of treating Schistosoma mansoni adult worms with miltefosine on exposure of worm surface antigens in vitro . In an indirect immunofluorescence assay , rabbit anti-S . mansoni adult worm homogenate and anti-S . mansoni infection antisera gave strong immunofluorescence of the S . mansoni adult worm surface after treatment with miltefosine , the latter antiserum having previously been shown to synergistically enhance the schistosomicidal activity of praziquantel . Rabbit antibodies that recognised surface antigens exposed on miltefosine-treated worms were recovered by elution off the worm surface in low pH buffer and were used in a western immunoblotting assay to identify antigenic targets in a homogenate extract of adult worms ( SmWH ) . Four proteins reacting with the antibodies in immunoblots were purified and proteomic analysis ( MS/MS ) combined with specific immunoblotting indicated they were the S . mansoni proteins: fructose-1 , 6 bisphosphate aldolase ( SmFBPA ) , Sm22 . 6 , alkaline phosphatase and malate dehydrogenase . These antibodies were also found to bind to the surface of 3-hour schistosomula and induce immune agglutination of the parasites , suggesting they may have a role in immune protection . T
In neurons polarized trafficking of vesicle-bound membrane proteins gives rise to the distinct molecular composition and functional properties of axons and dendrites . Despite their central role in shaping neuronal form and function , surprisingly little is known about the molecular processes that mediate polarized targeting of neuronal proteins . Recently , the plus-end-directed motor Myosin Va was shown to play a critical role in targeting of transmembrane proteins to dendrites; however , the role of myosin motors in axonal targeting is unknown . Here we show that Myosin VI , a minus-end-directed motor , plays a vital role in the enrichment of proteins on the surface of axons . Engineering non-neuronal proteins to interact with Myosin VI causes them to become highly concentrated at the axonal surface in dissociated rat cortical neurons . Furthermore , disruption of either Myosin VI function or expression leads to aberrant dendritic localization of axonal proteins . Myosin VI mediates the enrichment of proteins on the axonal surface at least in part by stimulating dendrite-specific endocytosis , a mechanism that has been shown to underlie the localization of many axonal proteins . In addition , a version of Channelrhodopsin 2 that was engineered to bind to Myosin VI is concentrated at the surface of the axon of cortical neurons in mice in vivo , suggesting that it could be a useful tool for probing circuit structure and function . Together , our results indicate that myosins
The consensus that complexity begets stability in ecosystems was challenged in the seventies , a result recently extended to ecologically-inspired networks . The approaches assume the existence of a feasible equilibrium , i . e . with positive abundances . However , this key assumption has not been tested . We provide analytical results complemented by simulations which show that equilibrium feasibility vanishes in species rich systems . This result leaves us in the uncomfortable situation in which the existence of a feasible equilibrium assumed in local stability criteria is far from granted . We extend our analyses by changing interaction structure and intensity , and find that feasibility and stability is warranted irrespective of species richness with weak interactions . Interestingly , we find that the dynamical behaviour of ecologically inspired architectures is very different and richer than that of unstructured systems . Our results suggest that a general understanding of ecosystem dynamics requires focusing on the interplay between interaction strength and network architecture . 
Vibrio cholerae is a bacterial pathogen that colonizes the chitinous exoskeleton of zooplankton as well as the human gastrointestinal tract . Colonization of these different niches involves an N-acetylglucosamine binding protein ( GbpA ) that has been reported to mediate bacterial attachment to both marine chitin and mammalian intestinal mucin through an unknown molecular mechanism . We report structural studies that reveal that GbpA possesses an unusual , elongated , four-domain structure , with domains 1 and 4 showing structural homology to chitin binding domains . A glycan screen revealed that GbpA binds to GlcNAc oligosaccharides . Structure-guided GbpA truncation mutants show that domains 1 and 4 of GbpA interact with chitin in vitro , whereas in vivo complementation studies reveal that domain 1 is also crucial for mucin binding and intestinal colonization . Bacterial binding studies show that domains 2 and 3 bind to the V . cholerae surface . Finally , mouse virulence assays show that only the first three domains of GbpA are required for colonization . These results explain how GbpA provides structural/functional modular interactions between V . cholerae , intestinal epithelium and chitinous exoskeletons . 
Marburg virus , the Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) and Dengue virus all activate , and benefit from , expression of the transcription regulator nuclear erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2 ) . The impact of Nrf2 activation on human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) infection has not been tested . Sulforaphane ( SFN ) , produced in cruciferous vegetables after mechanical damage , mobilizes Nrf2 to potently reprogram cellular gene expression . Here we show for the first time that SFN blocks HIV infection in primary macrophages but not in primary T cells . Similarly SFN blocks infection in PMA-differentiated promonocytic cell lines , but not in other cell lines tested . siRNA-mediated depletion of Nrf2 boosted HIV infectivity in primary macrophages and reduced the anti-viral effects of SFN treatment . This supports a model in which anti-viral activity is mediated through Nrf2 after it is mobilized by SFN . We further found that , like the type I interferon-induced cellular anti-viral proteins SAMHD1 and MX2 , SFN treatment blocks infection after entry , but before formation of 2-LTR circles . Interestingly however , neither SAMHD1 nor MX2 were upregulated . This shows for the first time that Nrf2 action can potently block HIV infection and highlights a novel way to trigger this inhibition . 
The development of new drugs against Chagas disease is a priority since the currently available medicines have toxic effects , partial efficacy and are targeted against the acute phase of disease . At present , there is no drug to treat the chronic stage . In this study , we have optimized a whole cell-based assay for high throughput screening of compounds that inhibit infection of mammalian cells by Trypanosoma cruzi trypomastigotes . A 2000-compound chemical library was screened using a recombinant T . cruzi ( Tulahuen strain ) expressing β-galactosidase . Three hits were selected for their high activity against T . cruzi and low toxicity to host cells in vitro: PCH1 , NT1 and CX1 ( IC50: 54 , 190 and 23 nM , respectively ) . Each of these three compounds presents a different mechanism of action on intracellular proliferation of T . cruzi amastigotes . CX1 shows strong trypanocidal activity , an essential characteristic for the development of drugs against the chronic stage of Chagas disease where parasites are found intracellular in a quiescent stage . NT1 has a trypanostatic effect , while PCH1 affects parasite division . The three compounds also show high activity against intracellular T . cruzi from the Y strain and against the related kinetoplastid species Leishmania major and L . amazonensis . Characterization of the anti–T . cruzi activity of molecules chemically related to the three library hits allowed the selection of two compounds with IC50 values of 2 nM ( PCH6 
Bistability plays a central role in the gene regulatory networks ( GRNs ) controlling many essential biological functions , including cellular differentiation and cell cycle control . However , establishing the network topologies that can exhibit bistability remains a challenge , in part due to the exceedingly large variety of GRNs that exist for even a small number of components . We begin to address this problem by employing chemical reaction network theory in a comprehensive in silico survey to determine the capacity for bistability of more than 40 , 000 simple networks that can be formed by two transcription factor-coding genes and their associated proteins ( assuming only the most elementary biochemical processes ) . We find that there exist reaction rate constants leading to bistability in ∼90% of these GRN models , including several circuits that do not contain any of the TF cooperativity commonly associated with bistable systems , and the majority of which could only be identified as bistable through an original subnetwork-based analysis . A topological sorting of the two-gene family of networks based on the presence or absence of biochemical reactions reveals eleven minimal bistable networks ( i . e . , bistable networks that do not contain within them a smaller bistable subnetwork ) . The large number of previously unknown bistable network topologies suggests that the capacity for switch-like behavior in GRNs arises with relative ease and is not easily lost through 
Even in the absence of an adaptive immune system in murine models , lymphatic dilatation and dysfunction occur in filarial infections , although severe irreversible lymphedema and elephantiasis appears to require an intact adaptive immune response in human infections . To address how filarial parasites and their antigens influence the lymphatics directly , human lymphatic endothelial cells were exposed to filarial antigens , live parasites , or infected patient serum . Live filarial parasites or filarial antigens induced both significant LEC proliferation and differentiation into tube-like structures in vitro . Moreover , serum from patently infected ( microfilaria positive ) patients and those with longstanding chronic lymphatic obstruction induced significantly increased LEC proliferation compared to sera from uninfected individuals . Differentiation of LEC into tube-like networks was found to be associated with significantly increased levels of matrix metalloproteases and inhibition of their TIMP inhibitors ( Tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteases ) . Comparison of global gene expression induced by live parasites in LEC to parasite-unexposed LEC demonstrated that filarial parasites altered the expression of those genes involved in cellular organization and development as well as those associated with junction adherence pathways that in turn decreased trans-endothelial transport as assessed by FITC-Dextran . The data suggest that filarial parasites directly induce lym
Plant-pathogenic Xanthomonas bacteria secrete transcription activator-like effectors ( TALEs ) into host cells , where they act as transcriptional activators on plant target genes to support bacterial virulence . TALEs have a unique modular DNA-binding domain composed of tandem repeats . Two amino acids within each tandem repeat , termed repeat-variable diresidues , bind to contiguous nucleotides on the DNA sequence and determine target specificity . In this paper , we propose a novel approach for TALE target prediction to identify potential virulence targets . Our approach accounts for recent findings concerning TALE targeting , including frame-shift binding by repeats of aberrant lengths , and the flexible strand orientation of target boxes relative to the transcription start of the downstream target gene . The computational model can account for dependencies between adjacent RVD positions . Model parameters are learned from the wealth of quantitative data that have been generated over the last years . We benchmark the novel approach , termed PrediTALE , using RNA-seq data after Xanthomonas infection in rice , and find an overall improvement of prediction performance compared with previous approaches . Using PrediTALE , we are able to predict several novel putative virulence targets . However , we also observe that no target genes are predicted by any prediction tool for several TALEs , which we term orphan TALEs for this reason . We postulate that one explanation for orpha
The evolution of new gene networks is a primary source of genetic innovation that allows bacteria to explore and exploit new niches , including pathogenic interactions with host organisms . For example , the archetypal DNA binding protein , OmpR , is identical between Salmonella Typhimurium serovar Typhimurium and Escherichia coli , but regulatory specialization has resulted in different environmental triggers of OmpR expression and largely divergent OmpR regulons . Specifically , ompR mRNA and OmpR protein levels are elevated by acid pH in S . Typhimurium but not in E . coli . This differential expression pattern is due to differences in the promoter regions of the ompR genes and the E . coli ompR orthologue can be made acid-inducible by introduction of the appropriate sequences from S . Typhimurium . The OmpR regulon in S . Typhimurium overlaps that of E . coli at only 15 genes and includes many horizontally acquired genes ( including virulence genes ) that E . coli does not have . We found that OmpR binds to its genomic targets in higher abundance when the DNA is relaxed , something that occurs in S . Typhimurium as a result of acid stress and which is a requirement for optimal expression of its virulence genes . The genomic targets of OmpR do not share a strong nucleotide sequence consensus: we propose that the ability of OmpR to recruit additional genes to its regulon arises from its modest requirements for specificity in its DNA targets with its preference for relaxed D
Two-component signaling systems are ubiquitous in bacteria , Archaea and plants and play important roles in sensing and responding to environmental stimuli . To propagate a signaling response the typical system employs a sensory histidine kinase that phosphorylates a Receiver ( REC ) domain on a conserved aspartate ( Asp ) residue . Although it is known that some REC domains are missing this Asp residue , it remains unclear as to how many of these divergent REC domains exist , what their functional roles are and how they are regulated in the absence of the conserved Asp . Here we have compiled all deposited REC domains missing their phosphorylatable Asp residue , renamed here as the Aspartate-Less Receiver ( ALR ) domains . Our data show that ALRs are surprisingly common and are enriched for when attached to more rare effector outputs . Analysis of our informatics and the available ALR atomic structures , combined with structural , biochemical and genetic data of the ALR archetype RitR from Streptococcus pneumoniae presented here suggest that ALRs have reorganized their active pockets to instead take on a constitutive regulatory role or accommodate input signals other than Asp phosphorylation , while largely retaining the canonical post-phosphorylation mechanisms and dimeric interface . This work defines ALRs as an atypical REC subclass and provides insights into shared mechanisms of activation between ALR and REC domains . 
The bacterial replication cycle is driven by the DnaA protein which cycles between the active ATP-bound form and the inactive ADP-bound form . It has been suggested that DnaA also is the main controller of initiation frequency . Initiation is thought to occur when enough ATP-DnaA has accumulated . In this work we have performed cell cycle analysis of cells that contain a surplus of ATP-DnaA and asked whether initiation then occurs earlier . It does not . Cells with more than a 50% increase in the concentration of ATP-DnaA showed no changes in timing of replication . We suggest that although ATP-DnaA is the main actor in initiation of replication , its accumulation does not control the time of initiation . ATP-DnaA is the motor that drives the initiation process , but other factors will be required for the exact timing of initiation in response to the cell’s environment . We also investigated the in vivo roles of datA dependent DnaA inactivation ( DDAH ) and the DnaA-binding protein DiaA . Loss of DDAH affected the cell cycle machinery only during slow growth and made it sensitive to the concentration of DiaA protein . The result indicates that compromised cell cycle machines perform in a less robust manner . 
The rat demyelination ( dmy ) mutation serves as a unique model system to investigate the maintenance of myelin , because it provokes severe myelin breakdown in the central nervous system ( CNS ) after normal postnatal completion of myelination . Here , we report the molecular characterization of this mutation and discuss the possible pathomechanisms underlying demyelination . By positional cloning , we found that a G-to-A transition , 177 bp downstream of exon 3 of the Mrs2 ( MRS2 magnesium homeostasis factor ( Saccharomyces cerevisiae ) ) gene , generated a novel splice acceptor site which resulted in functional inactivation of the mutant allele . Transgenic rescue with wild-type Mrs2-cDNA validated our findings . Mrs2 encodes an essential component of the major Mg2+ influx system in mitochondria of yeast as well as human cells . We showed that the dmy/dmy rats have major mitochondrial deficits with a markedly elevated lactic acid concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid , a 60% reduction in ATP , and increased numbers of mitochondria in the swollen cytoplasm of oligodendrocytes . MRS2-GFP recombinant BAC transgenic rats showed that MRS2 was dominantly expressed in neurons rather than oligodendrocytes and was ultrastructurally observed in the inner membrane of mitochondria . Our observations led to the conclusion that dmy/dmy rats suffer from a mitochondrial disease and that the maintenance of myelin has a different mechanism from its initial production . They also establis
Leishmaniasis is an important disease that affects 12 million people in 88 countries , with 2 million new cases every year . Leishmania amazonensis is an important agent in Brazil , leading to clinical forms varying from localized ( LCL ) to diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis ( DCL ) . One interesting issue rarely analyzed is how host immune response affects Leishmania phenotype and virulence . Aiming to study the effect of host immune system on Leishmania proteins we compared proteomes of amastigotes isolated from BALB/c and BALB/c nude mice . The athymic nude mice may resemble patients with diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis , considered T-cell hyposensitive or anergic to Leishmania´s antigens . This work is the first to compare modifications in amastigotes’ proteomes driven by host immune response . Among the 44 differentially expressed spots , there were proteins related to oxidative/nitrosative stress and proteases . Some correspond to known Leishmania virulence factors such as OPB and tryparedoxin peroxidase . Specific isoforms of these two proteins were increased in parasites from nude mice , suggesting that T cells probably restrain their posttranslational modifications in BALB/c mice . On the other hand , an isoform of HSP70 was increased in amastigotes from BALB/c mice . We believe our study may allow identification of potential virulence factors and ways of regulating their expression . 
To gain a more detailed picture of cryptococcosis in Thailand , a retrospective study of 498 C . neoformans and C . gattii isolates has been conducted . Among these , 386 , 83 and 29 strains were from clinical , environmental and veterinary sources , respectively . A total of 485 C . neoformans and 13 C . gattii strains were studied . The majority of the strains ( 68 . 9% ) were isolated from males ( mean age of 37 . 97 years ) , 88 . 5% of C . neoformans and only 37 . 5% of C . gattii strains were from HIV patients . URA5-RFLP and/or M13 PCR-fingerprinting analysis revealed that the majority of the isolates were C . neoformans molecular type VNI regardless of their sources ( 94 . 8%; 94 . 6% of the clinical , 98 . 8% of the environmental and 86 . 2% of the veterinary isolates ) . In addition , the molecular types VNII ( 2 . 4%; 66 . 7% of the clinical and 33 . 3% of the veterinary isolates ) , VNIV ( 0 . 2%; 100% environmental isolate ) , VGI ( 0 . 2%; 100% clinical isolate ) and VGII ( 2 . 4%; 100% clinical isolates ) were found less frequently . Multilocus Sequence Type ( MLST ) analysis using the ISHAM consensus MLST scheme for the C . neoformans/C . gattii species complex identified a total of 20 sequence types ( ST ) in Thailand combining current and previous data . The Thai isolates are an integrated part of the global cryptococcal population genetic structure , with ST30 for C . gattii and ST82 , ST83 , ST137 , ST141 , ST172 and ST173 for C . neoformans being unique t
Scabies is one of the commonest dermatological conditions globally; however it is a largely underexplored and truly neglected infectious disease . Foremost , improvement in the management of this public health burden is imperative . Current treatments with topical agents and/or oral ivermectin ( IVM ) are insufficient and drug resistance is emerging . Moxidectin ( MOX ) , with more advantageous pharmacological profiles may be a promising alternative . Using a porcine scabies model , 12 pigs were randomly assigned to receive orally either MOX ( 0 . 3 mg/kg once ) , IVM ( 0 . 2 mg/kg twice ) or no treatment . We evaluated treatment efficacies by assessing mite count , clinical lesions , pruritus and ELISA-determined anti-S . scabiei IgG antibodies reductions . Plasma and skin pharmacokinetic profiles were determined . At day 14 post-treatment , all four MOX-treated but only two IVM-treated pigs were mite-free . MOX efficacy was 100% and remained unchanged until study-end ( D47 ) , compared to 62% ( range 26–100% ) for IVM , with one IVM-treated pig remaining infected until D47 . Clinical scabies lesions , pruritus and anti-S . scabiei IgG antibodies had completely disappeared in all MOX-treated but only 75% of IVM-treated pigs . MOX persisted ~9 times longer than IVM in plasma and skin , thereby covering the mite’s entire life cycle and enabling long-lasting efficacy . Our data demonstrate that oral single-dose MOX was more effective than two consecutive IVM-doses , supporting 
The type III interferon ( IFNλ ) receptor IL-28R is abundantly expressed in the respiratory tract and has been shown essential for host defense against some viral pathogens , however no data are available concerning its role in the innate immune response to bacterial pathogens . Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa induced significant production of IFNλ in the lung , and clearance of these bacteria from the lung was significantly increased in IL-28R null mice compared to controls . Improved bacterial clearance correlated with reduced lung pathology and a reduced ratio of pro- vs anti-inflammatory cytokines in the airway . In human epithelial cells IFNλ inhibited miR-21 via STAT3 resulting in upregulation of PDCD4 , a protein known to promote inflammatory signaling . In vivo 18 hours following infection with either pathogen , miR-21 was significantly reduced and PDCD4 increased in the lungs of wild type compared to IL-28R null mice . Infection of PDCD4 null mice with USA300 resulted in improved clearance , reduced pathology , and reduced inflammatory cytokine production . These data suggest that during bacterial pneumonia IFNλ promotes inflammation by inhibiting miR-21 regulation of PDCD4 . 
Neural networks with a single plastic layer employing reward modulated spike time dependent plasticity ( STDP ) are capable of learning simple foraging tasks . Here we demonstrate advanced pattern discrimination and continuous learning in a network of spiking neurons with multiple plastic layers . The network utilized both reward modulated and non-reward modulated STDP and implemented multiple mechanisms for homeostatic regulation of synaptic efficacy , including heterosynaptic plasticity , gain control , output balancing , activity normalization of rewarded STDP and hard limits on synaptic strength . We found that addition of a hidden layer of neurons employing non-rewarded STDP created neurons that responded to the specific combinations of inputs and thus performed basic classification of the input patterns . When combined with a following layer of neurons implementing rewarded STDP , the network was able to learn , despite the absence of labeled training data , discrimination between rewarding patterns and the patterns designated as punishing . Synaptic noise allowed for trial-and-error learning that helped to identify the goal-oriented strategies which were effective in task solving . The study predicts a critical set of properties of the spiking neuronal network with STDP that was sufficient to solve a complex foraging task involving pattern classification and decision making . 
Genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) have been fruitful in identifying disease susceptibility loci for common and complex diseases . A remaining question is whether we can quantify individual disease risk based on genotype data , in order to facilitate personalized prevention and treatment for complex diseases . Previous studies have typically failed to achieve satisfactory performance , primarily due to the use of only a limited number of confirmed susceptibility loci . Here we propose that sophisticated machine-learning approaches with a large ensemble of markers may improve the performance of disease risk assessment . We applied a Support Vector Machine ( SVM ) algorithm on a GWAS dataset generated on the Affymetrix genotyping platform for type 1 diabetes ( T1D ) and optimized a risk assessment model with hundreds of markers . We subsequently tested this model on an independent Illumina-genotyped dataset with imputed genotypes ( 1 , 008 cases and 1 , 000 controls ) , as well as a separate Affymetrix-genotyped dataset ( 1 , 529 cases and 1 , 458 controls ) , resulting in area under ROC curve ( AUC ) of ∼0 . 84 in both datasets . In contrast , poor performance was achieved when limited to dozens of known susceptibility loci in the SVM model or logistic regression model . Our study suggests that improved disease risk assessment can be achieved by using algorithms that take into account interactions between a large ensemble of markers . We are optimistic that genotype-base
Leishmaniasis is endemic in 98 countries with an estimated 350 million people at risk and approximately 2 million cases annually . Brazil is one of the most severely affected countries . We applied Bayesian geostatistical negative binomial models to analyze reported incidence data of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil covering a 10-year period ( 2001–2010 ) . Particular emphasis was placed on spatial and temporal patterns . The models were fitted using integrated nested Laplace approximations to perform fast approximate Bayesian inference . Bayesian variable selection was employed to determine the most important climatic , environmental , and socioeconomic predictors of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis . For both types of leishmaniasis , precipitation and socioeconomic proxies were identified as important risk factors . The predicted number of cases in 2010 were 30 , 189 ( standard deviation [SD]: 7 , 676 ) for cutaneous leishmaniasis and 4 , 889 ( SD: 288 ) for visceral leishmaniasis . Our risk maps predicted the highest numbers of infected people in the states of Minas Gerais and Pará for visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis , respectively . Our spatially explicit , high-resolution incidence maps identified priority areas where leishmaniasis control efforts should be targeted with the ultimate goal to reduce disease incidence . 
IKAROS is a critical regulator of hematopoietic cell fate and its dynamic expression pattern is required for proper hematopoiesis . In collaboration with the Nucleosome Remodeling and Deacetylase ( NuRD ) complex , it promotes gene repression and activation . It remains to be clarified how IKAROS can support transcription activation while being associated with the HDAC-containing complex NuRD . IKAROS also binds to the Positive-Transcription Elongation Factor b ( P-TEFb ) at gene promoters . Here , we demonstrate that NuRD and P-TEFb are assembled in a complex that can be recruited to specific genes by IKAROS . The expression level of IKAROS influences the recruitment of the NuRD-P-TEFb complex to gene regulatory regions and facilitates transcription elongation by transferring the Protein Phosphatase 1α ( PP1α ) , an IKAROS-binding protein and P-TEFb activator , to CDK9 . We show that an IKAROS mutant that is unable to bind PP1α cannot sustain gene expression and impedes normal differentiation of IkNULL hematopoietic progenitors . Finally , the knock-down of the NuRD subunit Mi2 reveals that the occupancy of the NuRD complex at transcribed regions of genes favors the relief of POL II promoter-proximal pausing and thereby , promotes transcription elongation . 
Mitochondria originated from proteobacterial endosymbionts , and their transition to organelles was tightly linked to establishment of the protein import pathways . The initial import of most proteins is mediated by the translocase of the outer membrane ( TOM ) . Although TOM is common to all forms of mitochondria , an unexpected diversity of subunits between eukaryotic lineages has been predicted . However , experimental knowledge is limited to a few organisms , and so far , it remains unsettled whether the triplet-pore or the twin-pore structure is the generic form of TOM complex . Here , we analysed the TOM complex in hydrogenosomes , a metabolically specialised anaerobic form of mitochondria found in the excavate Trichomonas vaginalis . We demonstrate that the highly divergent β-barrel T . vaginalis TOM ( TvTom ) 40-2 forms a translocation channel to conduct hydrogenosomal protein import . TvTom40-2 is present in high molecular weight complexes , and their analysis revealed the presence of four tail-anchored ( TA ) proteins . Two of them , Tom36 and Tom46 , with heat shock protein ( Hsp ) 20 and tetratricopeptide repeat ( TPR ) domains , can bind hydrogenosomal preproteins and most likely function as receptors . A third subunit , Tom22-like protein , has a short cis domain and a conserved Tom22 transmembrane segment but lacks a trans domain . The fourth protein , hydrogenosomal outer membrane protein 19 ( Homp19 ) has no known homology . Furthermore , our data indicate th
Genetic factors play an important role in the etiology of both sporadic and familial breast cancer . We aimed to discover novel genetic susceptibility loci for breast cancer . We conducted a four-stage genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) in 19 , 091 cases and 20 , 606 controls of East-Asian descent including Chinese , Korean , and Japanese women . After analyzing 690 , 947 SNPs in 2 , 918 cases and 2 , 324 controls , we evaluated 5 , 365 SNPs for replication in 3 , 972 cases and 3 , 852 controls . Ninety-four SNPs were further evaluated in 5 , 203 cases and 5 , 138 controls , and finally the top 22 SNPs were investigated in up to 17 , 423 additional subjects ( 7 , 489 cases and 9 , 934 controls ) . SNP rs9485372 , near the TGF-β activated kinase ( TAB2 ) gene in chromosome 6q25 . 1 , showed a consistent association with breast cancer risk across all four stages , with a P-value of 3 . 8×10−12 in the combined analysis of all samples . Adjusted odds ratios ( 95% confidence intervals ) were 0 . 89 ( 0 . 85–0 . 94 ) and 0 . 80 ( 0 . 75–0 . 86 ) for the A/G and A/A genotypes , respectively , compared with the genotype G/G . SNP rs9383951 ( P = 1 . 9×10−6 from the combined analysis of all samples ) , located in intron 5 of the ESR1 gene , and SNP rs7107217 ( P = 4 . 6×10−7 ) , located at 11q24 . 3 , also showed a consistent association in each of the four stages . This study provides strong evidence for a novel breast cancer susceptibility locus represented by rs9485372 , near t
Understanding complex networks of protein-protein interactions ( PPIs ) is one of the foremost challenges of the post-genomic era . Due to the recent advances in experimental bio-technology , including yeast-2-hybrid ( Y2H ) , tandem affinity purification ( TAP ) and other high-throughput methods for protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) detection , huge amounts of PPI network data are becoming available . Of major concern , however , are the levels of noise and incompleteness . For example , for Y2H screens , it is thought that the false positive rate could be as high as 64% , and the false negative rate may range from 43% to 71% . TAP experiments are believed to have comparable levels of noise . We present a novel technique to assess the confidence levels of interactions in PPI networks obtained from experimental studies . We use it for predicting new interactions and thus for guiding future biological experiments . This technique is the first to utilize currently the best fitting network model for PPI networks , geometric graphs . Our approach achieves specificity of 85% and sensitivity of 90% . We use it to assign confidence scores to physical protein-protein interactions in the human PPI network downloaded from BioGRID . Using our approach , we predict 251 interactions in the human PPI network , a statistically significant fraction of which correspond to protein pairs sharing common GO terms . Moreover , we validate a statistically significant portion of our predicted inte
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) , caused by infection with Mycobacterium ulcerans , is a chronic necrotizing human skin disease associated with the production of the cytotoxic macrolide exotoxin mycolactone . Despite extensive research , the type of immune responses elicited against this pathogen and the effector functions conferring protection against BU are not yet fully understood . While histopathological analyses of advanced BU lesions have demonstrated a mainly extracellular localization of the toxin producing acid fast bacilli , there is growing evidence for an early intra-macrophage growth phase of M . ulcerans . This has led us to investigate whether interferon-γ might play an important role in containing M . ulcerans infections . In an experimental Buruli ulcer mouse model we found that interferon-γ is indeed a critical regulator of early host immune defense against M . ulcerans infections . Interferon-γ knockout mice displayed a faster progression of the infection compared to wild-type mice . This accelerated progression was reflected in faster and more extensive tissue necrosis and oedema formation , as well as in a significantly higher bacterial burden after five weeks of infection , indicating that mice lacking interferon-γ have a reduced capacity to kill intracellular bacilli during the early intra-macrophage growth phase of M . ulcerans . This data demonstrates a prominent role of interferon-γ in early defense against M . ulcerans infection and supports the view that conc
The mosquito Aedes aegypti , vector of dengue , chikungunya and yellow fever viruses , is an important target of vector control programs in tropical countries . Most mosquito surveillance programs are still based on the traditional household larval surveys , despite the availability of new trapping devices . We report the results of a multicentric entomological survey using four types of traps , besides the larval survey , to compare the entomological indices generated by these different surveillance tools in terms of their sensitivity to detect mosquito density variation . The study was conducted in five mid-sized cities , representing variations of tropical climate regimens . Surveillance schemes using traps for adults ( BG-Sentinel , Adultrap and MosquiTRAP ) or eggs ( ovitraps ) were applied monthly to three 1 km2 areas per city . Simultaneously , larval surveys were performed . Trap positivity and density indices in each area were calculated and regressed against meteorological variables to characterize the seasonal pattern of mosquito infestation in all cities , as measured by each of the four traps . The House Index was consistently low in most cities , with median always 0 . Traps rarely produced null indices , pointing to their greater sensitivity in detecting the presence of Ae . aegypti in comparison to the larval survey . Trap positivity indices tend to plateau at high mosquito densities . Despite this , both indices , positivity and density , agreed on the season
Mean-field approximations are a powerful tool for studying large neural networks . However , they do not describe well the behavior of networks composed of a small number of neurons . In this case , major differences between the mean-field approximation and the real behavior of the network can arise . Yet , many interesting problems in neuroscience involve the study of mesoscopic networks composed of a few tens of neurons . Nonetheless , mathematical methods that correctly describe networks of small size are still rare , and this prevents us to make progress in understanding neural dynamics at these intermediate scales . Here we develop a novel systematic analysis of the dynamics of arbitrarily small networks composed of homogeneous populations of excitatory and inhibitory firing-rate neurons . We study the local bifurcations of their neural activity with an approach that is largely analytically tractable , and we numerically determine the global bifurcations . We find that for strong inhibition these networks give rise to very complex dynamics , caused by the formation of multiple branching solutions of the neural dynamics equations that emerge through spontaneous symmetry-breaking . This qualitative change of the neural dynamics is a finite-size effect of the network , that reveals qualitative and previously unexplored differences between mesoscopic cortical circuits and their mean-field approximation . The most important consequence of spontaneous symmetry-breaking is the 
A major problem in biology is to understand how complex tissue shapes may arise through growth . In many cases this process involves preferential growth along particular orientations raising the question of how these orientations are specified . One view is that orientations are specified through stresses in the tissue ( axiality-based system ) . Another possibility is that orientations can be specified independently of stresses through molecular signalling ( polarity-based system ) . The axiality-based system has recently been explored through computational modelling . Here we develop and apply a polarity-based system which we call the Growing Polarised Tissue ( GPT ) framework . Tissue is treated as a continuous material within which regionally expressed factors under genetic control may interact and propagate . Polarity is established by signals that propagate through the tissue and is anchored in regions termed tissue polarity organisers that are also under genetic control . Rates of growth parallel or perpendicular to the local polarity may then be specified through a regulatory network . The resulting growth depends on how specified growth patterns interact within the constraints of mechanically connected tissue . This constraint leads to the emergence of features such as curvature that were not directly specified by the regulatory networks . Resultant growth feeds back to influence spatial arrangements and local orientations of tissue , allowing complex shapes to emerg
Ophthalmo-acromelic syndrome ( OAS ) , also known as Waardenburg Anophthalmia syndrome , is defined by the combination of eye malformations , most commonly bilateral anophthalmia , with post-axial oligosyndactyly . Homozygosity mapping and subsequent targeted mutation analysis of a locus on 14q24 . 2 identified homozygous mutations in SMOC1 ( SPARC-related modular calcium binding 1 ) in eight unrelated families . Four of these mutations are nonsense , two frame-shift , and two missense . The missense mutations are both in the second Thyroglobulin Type-1 ( Tg1 ) domain of the protein . The orthologous gene in the mouse , Smoc1 , shows site- and stage-specific expression during eye , limb , craniofacial , and somite development . We also report a targeted pre-conditional gene-trap mutation of Smoc1 ( Smoc1tm1a ) that reduces mRNA to ∼10% of wild-type levels . This gene-trap results in highly penetrant hindlimb post-axial oligosyndactyly in homozygous mutant animals ( Smoc1tm1a/tm1a ) . Eye malformations , most commonly coloboma , and cleft palate occur in a significant proportion of Smoc1tm1a/tm1a embryos and pups . Thus partial loss of Smoc-1 results in a convincing phenocopy of the human disease . SMOC-1 is one of the two mammalian paralogs of Drosophila Pentagone , an inhibitor of decapentaplegic . The orthologous gene in Xenopus laevis , Smoc-1 , also functions as a Bone Morphogenic Protein ( BMP ) antagonist in early embryogenesis . Loss of BMP antagonism during mammalian 
The Drosophila genes spalt major ( salm ) and spalt-related ( salr ) encode Zn-finger transcription factors regulated by the Decapentaplegic ( Dpp ) signalling pathway in the wing imaginal disc . The function of these genes is required for cell survival and proliferation in the central region of the wing disc , and also for vein patterning in the lateral regions . The identification of direct Salm and Salr target genes , and the analysis of their functions , are critical steps towards understanding the genetic control of growth and patterning of the Drosophila wing imaginal disc by the Dpp pathway . To identify candidate Salm/Salr target genes , we have compared the expression profile of salm/salr knockdown wing discs with control discs in microarray experiments . We studied by in situ hybridization the expression pattern of the genes whose mRNA levels varied significantly , and uncovered a complex transcription landscape regulated by the Spalt proteins in the wing disc . Interestingly , candidate Salm/Salr targets include genes which expression is turned off and genes which expression is positively regulated by Salm/Salr . Furthermore , loss-of-function phenotypic analysis of these genes indicates , for a fraction of them , a requirement for wing growth and patterning . The identification and analysis of candidate Salm/Salr target genes opens a new avenue to reconstruct the genetic structure of the wing , linking the activity of the Dpp pathway to the development of this epi
Sensory systems adapt their neural code to changes in the sensory environment , often on multiple time scales . Here , we report a new form of adaptation in a first-order auditory interneuron ( AN2 ) of crickets . We characterize the response of the AN2 neuron to amplitude-modulated sound stimuli and find that adaptation shifts the stimulus–response curves toward higher stimulus intensities , with a time constant of 1 . 5 s for adaptation and recovery . The spike responses were thus reduced for low-intensity sounds . We then address the question whether adaptation leads to an improvement of the signal's representation and compare the experimental results with the predictions of two competing hypotheses: infomax , which predicts that information conveyed about the entire signal range should be maximized , and selective coding , which predicts that “foreground” signals should be enhanced while “background” signals should be selectively suppressed . We test how adaptation changes the input–response curve when presenting signals with two or three peaks in their amplitude distributions , for which selective coding and infomax predict conflicting changes . By means of Bayesian data analysis , we quantify the shifts of the measured response curves and also find a slight reduction of their slopes . These decreases in slopes are smaller , and the absolute response thresholds are higher than those predicted by infomax . Most remarkably , and in contrast to the infomax principle , adapt
While the roles of rpoSBb and RpoS-dependent genes have been studied extensively within the mammal , the contribution of the RpoS regulon to the tick-phase of the Borrelia burgdorferi enzootic cycle has not been examined . Herein , we demonstrate that RpoS-dependent gene expression is prerequisite for the transmission of spirochetes by feeding nymphs . RpoS-deficient organisms are confined to the midgut lumen where they transform into an unusual morphotype ( round bodies ) during the later stages of the blood meal . We show that round body formation is rapidly reversible , and in vitro appears to be attributable , in part , to reduced levels of Coenzyme A disulfide reductase , which among other functions , provides NAD+ for glycolysis . Our data suggest that spirochetes default to an RpoS-independent program for round body formation upon sensing that the energetics for transmission are unfavorable . 
Two-cysteine peroxiredoxins are ubiquitous peroxidases that play various functions in cells . In Leishmania and related trypanosomatids , which lack catalase and selenium-glutathione peroxidases , the discovery of this family of enzymes provided the molecular basis for peroxide removal in these organisms . In this report the functional relevance of one of such enzymes , the mitochondrial 2-Cys peroxiredoxin ( mTXNPx ) , was investigated along the Leishmania infantum life cycle . mTXNPx null mutants ( mtxnpx− ) produced by a gene replacement strategy , while indistinguishable from wild type promastigotes , were found unable to thrive in a murine model of infection . Unexpectedly , however , the avirulent phenotype of mtxnpx− was not due to lack of the peroxidase activity of mTXNPx as these behaved like controls when exposed to oxidants added exogenously or generated by macrophages during phagocytosis ex vivo . In line with this , mtxnpx− were also avirulent when inoculated into murine hosts unable to mount an effective oxidative phagocyte response ( B6 . p47phox−/− and B6 . RAG2−/− IFN-γ−/− mice ) . Definitive conclusion that the peroxidase activity of mTXNPx is not required for parasite survival in mice was obtained by showing that a peroxidase-inactive version of this protein was competent in rescuing the non-infective phenotype of mtxnpx− . A novel function is thus proposed for mTXNPx , that of a molecular chaperone , which may explain the impaired infectivity of the null m
Microbial metabolism of plant polysaccharides is an important part of environmental carbon cycling , human nutrition , and industrial processes based on cellulosic bioconversion . Here we demonstrate a broadly applicable method to analyze how microbes catabolize plant polysaccharides that integrates carbohydrate-active enzyme ( CAZyme ) assays , RNA sequencing ( RNA-seq ) , and anaerobic growth screening . We apply this method to study how the bacterium Clostridium phytofermentans ferments plant biomass components including glucans , mannans , xylans , galactans , pectins , and arabinans . These polysaccharides are fermented with variable efficiencies , and diauxies prioritize metabolism of preferred substrates . Strand-specific RNA-seq reveals how this bacterium responds to polysaccharides by up-regulating specific groups of CAZymes , transporters , and enzymes to metabolize the constituent sugars . Fifty-six up-regulated CAZymes were purified , and their activities show most polysaccharides are degraded by multiple enzymes , often from the same family , but with divergent rates , specificities , and cellular localizations . CAZymes were then tested in combination to identify synergies between enzymes acting on the same substrate with different catalytic mechanisms . We discuss how these results advance our understanding of how microbes degrade and metabolize plant biomass . 
Glanders , caused by the gram-negative bacterium Burkholderia mallei , is a highly infectious zoonotic disease of solipeds causing severe disease in animals and men . Although eradicated from many Western countries , it recently emerged in Asia , the Middle-East , Africa , and South America . Due to its rareness , little is known about outbreak dynamics of the disease and its epidemiology . We investigated a recent outbreak of glanders in Bahrain by applying high resolution genotyping ( multiple locus variable number of tandem repeats , MLVA ) and comparative whole genome sequencing to B . mallei isolated from infected horses and a camel . These results were compared to samples obtained from an outbreak in the United Arab Emirates in 2004 , and further placed into a broader phylogeographic context based on previously published B . mallei data . The samples from the outbreak in Bahrain separated into two distinct clusters , suggesting a complex epidemiological background and evidence for the involvement of multiple B . mallei strains . Additionally , the samples from Bahrain were more closely related to B . mallei isolated from horses in the United Arab Emirates in 2004 than other B . mallei which is suggestive of repeated importation to the region from similar geographic sources . High-resolution genotyping and comparative whole genome analysis revealed the same phylogenetic patterns among our samples . The close relationship of the Dubai/UAE B . mallei populations to each ot
Observations gained from model organisms are essential , yet it remains unclear to which degree they are applicable to distant relatives . For example , in the dicotyledon Arabidopsis thaliana ( Arabidopsis ) , auxin biosynthesis via indole-3-pyruvic acid ( IPA ) is essential for root development and requires redundant TRYPTOPHAN AMINOTRANSFERASE OF ARABIDOPSIS 1 ( TAA1 ) and TAA1-RELATED ( TAR ) genes . A promoter T-DNA insertion in the monocotyledon Brachypodium distachyon ( Brachypodium ) TAR2-LIKE gene ( BdTAR2L ) severely down-regulates expression , suggesting reduced tryptophan aminotransferase activity in this mutant , which thus represents a hypomorphic Bdtar2l allele ( Bdtar2lhypo ) . Counterintuitive however , Bdtar2lhypo mutants display dramatically elongated seminal roots because of enhanced cell elongation . This phenotype is also observed in another , stronger Bdtar2l allele and can be mimicked by treating wild type with L-kynerunine , a specific TAA1/TAR inhibitor . Surprisingly , L-kynerunine-treated as well as Bdtar2l roots display elevated rather than reduced auxin levels . This does not appear to result from compensation by alternative auxin biosynthesis pathways . Rather , expression of YUCCA genes , which are rate-limiting for conversion of IPA to auxin , is increased in Bdtar2l mutants . Consistent with suppression of Bdtar2lhypo root phenotypes upon application of the ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic-acid ( ACC ) , BdYUCCA genes are d
The 3D organization of chromosomes is crucial for regulating gene expression and cell function . Many experimental and polymer modeling efforts are dedicated to deciphering the mechanistic principles behind chromosome folding . Chromosomes are long and densely packed—topologically constrained—polymers . The main challenges are therefore to develop adequate models and simulation methods to investigate properly the multi spatio-temporal scales of such macromolecules . Here , we proposed a generic strategy to develop efficient coarse-grained models for self-avoiding polymers on a lattice . Accounting accurately for the polymer entanglement length and the volumic density , we show that our simulation scheme not only captures the steady-state structural and dynamical properties of the system but also tracks the same dynamics at different coarse-graining . This strategy allows a strong power-law gain in numerical efficiency and offers a systematic way to define reliable coarse-grained null models for chromosomes and to go beyond the current limitations by studying long chromosomes during an extended time period with good statistics . We use our formalism to investigate in details the time evolution of the 3D organization of chromosome 3R ( 20 Mbp ) in drosophila during one cell cycle ( 20 hours ) . We show that a combination of our coarse-graining strategy with a one-parameter block copolymer model integrating epigenomic-driven interactions quantitatively reproduce experimental dat
Toxoplasma is an obligate intracellular parasite that replicates in mammalian cells within a parasitophorous vacuole ( PV ) that does not fuse with any host organelles . One mechanism developed by the parasite for nutrient acquisition is the attraction of host organelles to the PV . Here , we examined the exploitation of host lipid droplets ( LD ) , ubiquitous fat storage organelles , by Toxoplasma . We show that Toxoplasma replication is reduced in host cells that are depleted of LD , or impaired in TAG lipolysis or fatty acid catabolism . In infected cells , the number of host LD and the expression of host LD-associated genes ( ADRP , DGAT2 ) , progressively increase until the onset of parasite replication . Throughout infection , the PV are surrounded by host LD . Toxoplasma is capable of accessing lipids stored in host LD and incorporates these lipids into its own membranes and LD . Exogenous addition of oleic acid stimulates LD biogenesis in the host cell and results in the overaccumulation of neutral lipids in very large LD inside the parasite . To access LD-derived lipids , Toxoplasma intercepts and internalizes within the PV host LD , some of which remaining associated with Rab7 , which become wrapped by an intravacuolar network of membranes ( IVN ) . Mutant parasites impaired in IVN formation display diminished capacity of lipid uptake from host LD . Moreover , parasites lacking an IVN-localized phospholipase A2 are less proficient in salvaging lipids from host LD in
The BMP signaling pathway has a conserved role in dorsal-ventral axis patterning during embryonic development . In Drosophila , graded BMP signaling is transduced by the Mad transcription factor and opposed by the Brinker repressor . In this study , using the Drosophila embryo as a model , we combine RNA-seq with Mad and Brinker ChIP-seq to decipher the BMP-responsive transcriptional network underpinning differentiation of the dorsal ectoderm during dorsal-ventral axis patterning . We identify multiple new BMP target genes , including positive and negative regulators of EGF signaling . Manipulation of EGF signaling levels by loss- and gain-of-function studies reveals that EGF signaling negatively regulates embryonic BMP-responsive transcription . Therefore , the BMP gene network has a self-regulating property in that it establishes a balance between its activity and that of the antagonistic EGF signaling pathway to facilitate correct patterning . In terms of BMP-dependent transcription , we identify key roles for the Zelda and Zerknüllt transcription factors in establishing the resulting expression domain , and find widespread binding of insulator proteins to the Mad and Brinker-bound genomic regions . Analysis of embryos lacking the BEAF-32 insulator protein shows reduced transcription of a peak BMP target gene and a reduction in the number of amnioserosa cells , the fate specified by peak BMP signaling . We incorporate our findings into a model for Mad-dependent activation 
The mitochondrial protein repertoire varies depending on the cellular state . Protein component modifications caused by mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) depletion are related to a wide range of human diseases; however , little is known about how nuclear-encoded mitochondrial proteins ( mt proteome ) changes under such dysfunctional states . In this study , we investigated the systemic alterations of mtDNA-depleted ( ρ0 ) mitochondria by using network analysis of gene expression data . By modularizing the quantified proteomics data into protein functional networks , systemic properties of mitochondrial dysfunction were analyzed . We discovered that up-regulated and down-regulated proteins were organized into two predominant subnetworks that exhibited distinct biological processes . The down-regulated network modules are involved in typical mitochondrial functions , while up-regulated proteins are responsible for mtDNA repair and regulation of mt protein expression and transport . Furthermore , comparisons of proteome and transcriptome data revealed that ρ0 cells attempted to compensate for mtDNA depletion by modulating the coordinated expression/transport of mt proteins . Our results demonstrate that mt protein composition changed to remodel the functional organization of mitochondrial protein networks in response to dysfunctional cellular states . Human mt protein functional networks provide a framework for understanding how cells respond to mitochondrial dysfunctions . 
The dissociation mechanism of the thioredoxin ( Trx ) mixed disulfide complexes is unknown and has been debated for more than twenty years . Specifically , opposing arguments for the activation of the nucleophilic cysteine as a thiolate during the dissociation of the complex have been put forward . As a key model , the complex between Trx and its endogenous substrate , arsenate reductase ( ArsC ) , was used . In this structure , a Cys29Trx-Cys89ArsC intermediate disulfide is formed by the nucleophilic attack of Cys29Trx on the exposed Cys82ArsC-Cys89ArsC in oxidized ArsC . With theoretical reactivity analysis , molecular dynamics simulations , and biochemical complex formation experiments with Cys-mutants , Trx mixed disulfide dissociation was studied . We observed that the conformational changes around the intermediate disulfide bring Cys32Trx in contact with Cys29Trx . Cys32Trx is activated for its nucleophilic attack by hydrogen bonds , and Cys32Trx is found to be more reactive than Cys82ArsC . Additionally , Cys32Trx directs its nucleophilic attack on the more susceptible Cys29Trx and not on Cys89ArsC . This multidisciplinary approach provides fresh insights into a universal thiol/disulfide exchange reaction mechanism that results in reduced substrate and oxidized Trx . 
Pathophysiological mechanisms are still incompletely understood for leprosy , an urgent public health issue in Brazil . Complement receptor 1 ( CR1 ) binds complement fragments C3b/C4b deposited on mycobacteria , mediating its entrance in macrophages . We investigated CR1 polymorphisms , gene expression and soluble CR1 levels in a case-control study with Brazilian leprosy patients , aiming to understand the role of this receptor in differential susceptibility to the disease . Nine polymorphisms were haplotyped by multiplex PCR-SSP in 213 leprosy patients ( 47% multibacillary ) and 297 controls . mRNA levels were measured by qPCR and sCR1 by ELISA , in up to 80 samples . Individuals with the most common recombinant haplotype harboring rs3849266*T in intron 21 and rs3737002*T in exon 26 ( encoding p . 1408Met of the York Yka+ antigen ) , presented twice higher susceptibility to leprosy ( OR = 2 . 43 , p = 0 . 017 ) . Paucibacillary patients with these variants presented lower sCR1 levels , thus reducing the anti-inflammatory response ( p = 0 . 040 and p = 0 . 046 , respectively ) . Furthermore , the most ancient haplotype increased susceptibility to the multibacillary clinical form ( OR = 3 . 04 , p = 0 . 01 ) and presented the intronic rs12034383*G allele , which was associated with higher gene expression ( p = 0 . 043 ) , probably increasing internalization of the parasite . Furthermore , there was an inverse correlation between the levels of sCR1 and mannose-binding lectin (
Metagenomic sequencing of patient samples is a very promising method for the diagnosis of human infections . Sequencing has the ability to capture all the DNA or RNA from pathogenic organisms in a human sample . However , complete and accurate characterization of the sequence , including identification of any pathogens , depends on the availability and quality of genomes for comparison . Thousands of genomes are now available , and as these numbers grow , the power of metagenomic sequencing for diagnosis should increase . However , recent studies have exposed the presence of contamination in published genomes , which when used for diagnosis increases the risk of falsely identifying the wrong pathogen . To address this problem , we have developed a bioinformatics system for eliminating contamination as well as low-complexity genomic sequences in the draft genomes of eukaryotic pathogens . We applied this software to identify and remove human , bacterial , archaeal , and viral sequences present in a comprehensive database of all sequenced eukaryotic pathogen genomes . We also removed low-complexity genomic sequences , another source of false positives . Using this pipeline , we have produced a database of “clean” eukaryotic pathogen genomes for use with bioinformatics classification and analysis tools . We demonstrate that when attempting to find eukaryotic pathogens in metagenomic samples , the new database provides better sensitivity than one using the original genomes while 
Environmental exposures filtered through the genetic make-up of each individual alter the transcriptional repertoire in organs central to metabolic homeostasis , thereby affecting arterial lipid accumulation , inflammation , and the development of coronary artery disease ( CAD ) . The primary aim of the Stockholm Atherosclerosis Gene Expression ( STAGE ) study was to determine whether there are functionally associated genes ( rather than individual genes ) important for CAD development . To this end , two-way clustering was used on 278 transcriptional profiles of liver , skeletal muscle , and visceral fat ( n = 66/tissue ) and atherosclerotic and unaffected arterial wall ( n = 40/tissue ) isolated from CAD patients during coronary artery bypass surgery . The first step , across all mRNA signals ( n = 15 , 042/12 , 621 RefSeqs/genes ) in each tissue , resulted in a total of 60 tissue clusters ( n = 3958 genes ) . In the second step ( performed within tissue clusters ) , one atherosclerotic lesion ( n = 49/48 ) and one visceral fat ( n = 59 ) cluster segregated the patients into two groups that differed in the extent of coronary stenosis ( P = 0 . 008 and P = 0 . 00015 ) . The associations of these clusters with coronary atherosclerosis were validated by analyzing carotid atherosclerosis expression profiles . Remarkably , in one cluster ( n = 55/54 ) relating to carotid stenosis ( P = 0 . 04 ) , 27 genes in the two clusters relating to coronary stenosis were confirmed ( n = 16/
Every instant of perception depends on a cascade of brain processes calibrated to the history of sensory and decisional events . In the present work , we show that human visual perception is constantly shaped by two contrasting forces exerted by sensory adaptation and past decisions . In a series of experiments , we used multilevel modeling and cross-validation approaches to investigate the impact of previous stimuli and decisions on behavioral reports during adjustment and forced-choice tasks . Our results revealed that each perceptual report is permeated by opposite biases from a hierarchy of serially dependent processes: Low-level adaptation repels perception away from previous stimuli , whereas decisional traces attract perceptual reports toward the recent past . In this hierarchy of serial dependence , “continuity fields” arise from the inertia of decisional templates and not from low-level sensory processes . This finding is consistent with a Two-process model of serial dependence in which the persistence of readout weights in a decision unit compensates for sensory adaptation , leading to attractive biases in sequential perception . We propose a unified account of serial dependence in which functionally distinct mechanisms , operating at different stages , promote the differentiation and integration of visual information over time . 
Examples of animals evolving similar traits despite the absence of that trait in the last common ancestor , such as the wing and camera-type lens eye in vertebrates and invertebrates , are called cases of convergent evolution . Instances of convergent evolution of locomotory patterns that quantitatively agree with the mechanically optimal solution are very rare . Here , we show that , with respect to a very diverse group of aquatic animals , a mechanically optimal method of swimming with elongated fins has evolved independently at least eight times in both vertebrate and invertebrate swimmers across three different phyla . Specifically , if we take the length of an undulation along an animal’s fin during swimming and divide it by the mean amplitude of undulations along the fin length , the result is consistently around twenty . We call this value the optimal specific wavelength ( OSW ) . We show that the OSW maximizes the force generated by the body , which also maximizes swimming speed . We hypothesize a mechanical basis for this optimality and suggest reasons for its repeated emergence through evolution . 
Human papillomaviruses ( HPVs ) are DNA viruses associated with major human cancers . As such there is a strong interest in developing new means , such as vaccines and microbicides , to prevent HPV infections . Developing the latter requires a better understanding of the infectious life cycle of HPVs . The HPV infectious life cycle is closely linked to the differentiation state of the stratified epithelium it infects , with progeny virus only made in the terminally differentiating suprabasal compartment . It has long been recognized that HPV must first establish its infection within the basal layer of stratified epithelium , but why this is the case has not been understood . In part this restriction might reflect specificity of expression of entry receptors . However , this hypothesis could not fully explain the differentiation restriction of HPV infection , since many cell types can be infected with HPVs in monolayer cell culture . Here , we used chemical biology approaches to reveal that cell cycle progression through mitosis is critical for HPV infection . Using infectious HPV16 particles containing the intact viral genome , G1-synchronized human keratinocytes as hosts , and early viral gene expression as a readout for infection , we learned that the recipient cell must enter M phase ( mitosis ) for HPV infection to take place . Late M phase inhibitors had no effect on infection , whereas G1 , S , G2 , and early M phase cell cycle inhibitors efficiently prevented infection
Orofacial clefting is amongst the most common of birth defects , with both genetic and environmental components . Although numerous studies have been undertaken to investigate the complexities of the genetic etiology of this heterogeneous condition , this factor remains incompletely understood . Here , we describe mutations in the HYAL2 gene as a cause of syndromic orofacial clefting . HYAL2 , encoding hyaluronidase 2 , degrades extracellular hyaluronan , a critical component of the developing heart and palatal shelf matrix . Transfection assays demonstrated that the gene mutations destabilize the molecule , dramatically reducing HYAL2 protein levels . Consistent with the clinical presentation in affected individuals , investigations of Hyal2-/- mice revealed craniofacial abnormalities , including submucosal cleft palate . In addition , cor triatriatum sinister and hearing loss , identified in a proportion of Hyal2-/- mice , were also found as incompletely penetrant features in affected humans . Taken together our findings identify a new genetic cause of orofacial clefting in humans and mice , and define the first molecular cause of human cor triatriatum sinister , illustrating the fundamental importance of HYAL2 and hyaluronan turnover for normal human and mouse development . 
The mechanisms of hypoxic injury to the developing human brain are poorly understood , despite being a major cause of chronic neurodevelopmental impairments . Recent work in the invertebrate Caenorhabditis elegans has shown that hypoxia causes discrete axon pathfinding errors in certain interneurons and motorneurons . However , it is unknown whether developmental hypoxia would have similar effects in a vertebrate nervous system . We have found that developmental hypoxic injury disrupts pathfinding of forebrain neurons in zebrafish ( Danio rerio ) , leading to errors in which commissural axons fail to cross the midline . The pathfinding defects result from activation of the hypoxia-inducible transcription factor ( hif1 ) pathway and are mimicked by chemical inducers of the hif1 pathway or by expression of constitutively active hif1α . Further , we found that blocking transcriptional activation by hif1α helped prevent the guidance defects . We identified ephrinB2a as a target of hif1 pathway activation , showed that knock-down of ephrinB2a rescued the guidance errors , and showed that the receptor ephA4a is expressed in a pattern complementary to the misrouting axons . By targeting a constitutively active form of ephrinB2a to specific neurons , we found that ephrinB2a mediates the pathfinding errors via a reverse-signaling mechanism . Finally , magnesium sulfate , used to improve neurodevelopmental outcomes in preterm births , protects against pathfinding errors by preventing u
Filarial nematodes maintain a mutualistic relationship with the endosymbiont Wolbachia . Depletion of Wolbachia produces profound defects in nematode development , fertility and viability and thus has great promise as a novel approach for treating filarial diseases . However , little is known concerning the basis for this mutualistic relationship . Here we demonstrate using whole mount confocal microscopy that an immediate response to Wolbachia depletion is extensive apoptosis in the adult germline , and in the somatic cells of the embryos , microfilariae and fourth-stage larvae ( L4 ) . Surprisingly , apoptosis occurs in the majority of embryonic cells that had not been infected prior to antibiotic treatment . In addition , no apoptosis occurs in the hypodermal chords , which are populated with large numbers of Wolbachia , although disruption of the hypodermal cytoskeleton occurs following their depletion . Thus , the induction of apoptosis upon Wolbachia depletion is non-cell autonomous and suggests the involvement of factors originating from Wolbachia in the hypodermal chords . The pattern of apoptosis correlates closely with the nematode tissues and processes initially perturbed following depletion of Wolbachia , embryogenesis and long-term sterilization , which are sustained for several months until the premature death of the adult worms . Our observations provide a cellular mechanism to account for the sustained reductions in microfilarial loads and interruption of tran
Genetic reassortment between influenza A viruses ( IAVs ) facilitate emergence of pandemic strains , and swine are proposed as a “mixing vessel” for generating reassortants of avian and mammalian IAVs that could be of risk to mammals , including humans . However , how a transmissible reassortant emerges in swine are not well understood . Genomic analyses of 571 isolates recovered from nasal wash samples and respiratory tract tissues of a group of co-housed pigs ( influenza-seronegative , avian H1N1 IAV–infected , and swine H3N2 IAV–infected pigs ) identified 30 distinct genotypes of reassortants . Viruses recovered from lower respiratory tract tissues had the largest genomic diversity , and those recovered from turbinates and nasal wash fluids had the least . Reassortants from lower respiratory tracts had the largest variations in growth kinetics in respiratory tract epithelial cells , and the cold temperature in swine nasal cells seemed to select the type of reassortant viruses shed by the pigs . One reassortant in nasal wash samples was consistently identified in upper , middle , and lower respiratory tract tissues , and it was confirmed to be transmitted efficiently between pigs . Study findings suggest that , during mixed infections of avian and swine IAVs , genetic reassortments are likely to occur in the lower respiratory track , and tissue tropism is an important factor selecting for a transmissible reassortant . 
The Saccharomyces cerevisiae polo-like kinase Cdc5 promotes adaptation to the DNA damage checkpoint , in addition to its numerous roles in mitotic progression . The process of adaptation occurs when cells are presented with persistent or irreparable DNA damage and escape the cell-cycle arrest imposed by the DNA damage checkpoint . However , the precise mechanism of adaptation remains unknown . We report here that CDC5 is dose-dependent for adaptation and that its overexpression promotes faster adaptation , indicating that high levels of Cdc5 modulate the ability of the checkpoint to inhibit the downstream cell-cycle machinery . To pinpoint the step in the checkpoint pathway at which Cdc5 acts , we overexpressed CDC5 from the GAL1 promoter in damaged cells and examined key steps in checkpoint activation individually . Cdc5 overproduction appeared to have little effect on the early steps leading to Rad53 activation . The checkpoint sensors , Ddc1 ( a member of the 9-1-1 complex ) and Ddc2 ( a member of the Ddc2/Mec1 complex ) , properly localized to damage sites . Mec1 appeared to be active , since the Rad9 adaptor retained its Mec1 phosphorylation . Moreover , the damage-induced interaction between phosphorylated Rad9 and Rad53 remained intact . In contrast , Rad53 hyperphosphorylation was significantly reduced , consistent with the observation that cell-cycle arrest is lost during adaptation . Thus , we conclude Cdc5 acts to attenuate the DNA damage checkpoint through loss of
Sequences of higher frequency A and lower frequency B tones repeating in an ABA- triplet pattern are widely used to study auditory streaming . One may experience either an integrated percept , a single ABA-ABA- stream , or a segregated percept , separate but simultaneous streams A-A-A-A- and -B---B-- . During minutes-long presentations , subjects may report irregular alternations between these interpretations . We combine neuromechanistic modeling and psychoacoustic experiments to study these persistent alternations and to characterize the effects of manipulating stimulus parameters . Unlike many phenomenological models with abstract , percept-specific competition and fixed inputs , our network model comprises neuronal units with sensory feature dependent inputs that mimic the pulsatile-like A1 responses to tones in the ABA- triplets . It embodies a neuronal computation for percept competition thought to occur beyond primary auditory cortex ( A1 ) . Mutual inhibition , adaptation and noise are implemented . We include slow NDMA recurrent excitation for local temporal memory that enables linkage across sound gaps from one triplet to the next . Percepts in our model are identified in the firing patterns of the neuronal units . We predict with the model that manipulations of the frequency difference between tones A and B should affect the dominance durations of the stronger percept , the one dominant a larger fraction of time , more than those of the weaker percept—a property th
Recent interest in male-based sterile insect technique ( SIT ) and incompatible insect technique ( IIT ) to control Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus populations has revealed the need for an economical , rapid diagnostic tool for determining dispersion and mating success of sterilized males in the wild . Previous reports from other insects indicated rhodamine B , a thiol-reactive fluorescent dye , administered via sugar-feeding can be used to stain the body tissue and seminal fluid of insects . Here , we report on the adaptation of this technique for male Ae . aegypti to allow for rapid assessment of competitiveness ( mating success ) during field releases . Marking was achieved by feeding males on 0 . 1 , 0 . 2 , 0 . 4 or 0 . 8% rhodamine B ( w/v ) in 50% honey solutions during free flight . All concentrations produced >95% transfer to females and successful body marking after 4 days of feeding , with 0 . 4 and 0 . 8% solutions producing the longest-lasting body marking . Importantly , rhodamine B marking had no effect on male mating competitiveness and proof-of-principle field releases demonstrated successful transfer of marked seminal fluid to females under field conditions and recapture of marked males . These results reveal rhodamine B to be a potentially useful evaluation method for male-based SIT/IIT control strategies as well as a viable body marking technique for male-based mark-release-recapture experiments without the negative side-effects of traditional marking m
Hematophagous mosquitos and ticks avoid host hemostatic system through expression of enzyme inhibitors targeting proteolytic reactions of the coagulation and complement cascades . While most inhibitors characterized to date were found in the salivary glands , relatively few others have been identified in the midgut . Among those , Boophilin is a 2-Kunitz multifunctional inhibitor targeting thrombin , elastase , and kallikrein . However , the kinetics of Boophilin interaction with these enzymes , how it modulates platelet function , and whether it inhibits thrombosis in vivo have not been determined . Boophilin was expressed in HEK293 cells and purified to homogeneity . Using amidolytic assays and surface plasmon resonance experiments , we have demonstrated that Boophilin behaves as a classical , non-competitive inhibitor of thrombin with respect to small chromogenic substrates by a mechanism dependent on both exosite-1 and catalytic site . Inhibition is accompanied by blockade of platelet aggregation , fibrin formation , and clot-bound thrombin in vitro . Notably , we also identified Boophilin as a non-competitive inhibitor of FXIa , preventing FIX activation . In addition , Boophilin inhibits kallikrein activity and the reciprocal activation , indicating that it targets the contact pathway . Furthermore , Boophilin abrogates cathepsin G- and plasmin-induced platelet aggregation and partially affects elastase-mediated cleavage of Tissue Factor Pathway Inhibitor ( TFPI ) . Fin
In mammals , dosage compensation is achieved by doubling expression of X-linked genes in both sexes , together with X inactivation in females . Up-regulation of the active X chromosome may be controlled by DNA sequence–based and/or epigenetic mechanisms that double the X output potentially in response to autosomal factor ( s ) . To determine whether X expression is adjusted depending on ploidy , we used expression arrays to compare X-linked and autosomal gene expression in human triploid cells . While the average X:autosome expression ratio was about 1 in normal diploid cells , this ratio was lower ( 0 . 81–0 . 84 ) in triploid cells with one active X and higher ( 1 . 32–1 . 4 ) in triploid cells with two active X's . Thus , overall X-linked gene expression in triploid cells does not strictly respond to an autosomal factor , nor is it adjusted to achieve a perfect balance . The unbalanced X:autosome expression ratios that we observed could contribute to the abnormal phenotypes associated with triploidy . Absolute autosomal expression levels per gene copy were similar in triploid versus diploid cells , indicating no apparent global effect on autosomal expression . In triploid cells with two active X's our data support a basic doubling of X-linked gene expression . However , in triploid cells with a single active X , X-linked gene expression is adjusted upward presumably by an epigenetic mechanism that senses the ratio between the number of active X chromosomes and autosomal se
The opportunistic human fungal pathogen , Candida albicans , undergoes morphological and transcriptional adaptation in the switch from commensalism to pathogenicity . Although previous gene-knockout studies have identified many factors involved in this transformation , it remains unclear how these factors are regulated to coordinate the switch . Investigating morphogenetic control by post-translational phosphorylation has generated important regulatory insights into this process , especially focusing on coordinated control by the cyclin-dependent kinase Cdc28 . Here we have identified the Fkh2 transcription factor as a regulatory target of both Cdc28 and the cell wall biosynthesis kinase Cbk1 , in a role distinct from its conserved function in cell cycle progression . In stationary phase yeast cells 2D gel electrophoresis shows that there is a diverse pool of Fkh2 phospho-isoforms . For a short window on hyphal induction , far before START in the cell cycle , the phosphorylation profile is transformed before reverting to the yeast profile . This transformation does not occur when stationary phase cells are reinoculated into fresh medium supporting yeast growth . Mass spectrometry and mutational analyses identified residues phosphorylated by Cdc28 and Cbk1 . Substitution of these residues with non-phosphorylatable alanine altered the yeast phosphorylation profile and abrogated the characteristic transformation to the hyphal profile . Transcript profiling of the phosphorylation
Egress of newly assembled herpesvirus particles from infected cells is a highly dynamic process involving the host secretory pathway working in concert with viral components . To elucidate the location , dynamics , and molecular mechanisms of alpha herpesvirus egress , we developed a live-cell fluorescence microscopy method to visualize the final transport and exocytosis of pseudorabies virus ( PRV ) particles in non-polarized epithelial cells . This method is based on total internal reflection fluorescence ( TIRF ) microscopy to selectively image fluorescent virus particles near the plasma membrane , and takes advantage of a virus-encoded pH-sensitive probe to visualize the precise moment and location of particle exocytosis . We performed single-particle tracking and mean squared displacement analysis to characterize particle motion , and imaged a panel of cellular proteins to identify those spatially and dynamically associated with viral exocytosis . Based on our data , individual virus particles travel to the plasma membrane inside small , acidified secretory vesicles . Rab GTPases , Rab6a , Rab8a , and Rab11a , key regulators of the plasma membrane-directed secretory pathway , are present on the virus secretory vesicle . These vesicles undergo fast , directional transport directly to the site of exocytosis , which is most frequently near patches of LL5β , part of a complex that anchors microtubules to the plasma membrane . Vesicles are tightly docked at the site of exocyt
The variants of human influenza virus have caused , and continue to cause , substantial morbidity and mortality . Timely and accurate assessment of their impact on human death is invaluable for influenza planning but presents a substantial challenge , as current approaches rely mostly on intensive and unbiased influenza surveillance . In this study , by proposing a novel host-virus interaction model , we have established a positive correlation between the excess mortalities caused by viral strains of distinct antigenicity and their antigenic distances to their previous strains for each ( sub ) type of seasonal influenza viruses . Based on this relationship , we further develop a method to rapidly assess the mortality burden of influenza A ( H1N1 ) virus by accurately predicting the antigenic distance between A ( H1N1 ) strains . Rapid estimation of influenza mortality burden for new seasonal strains should help formulate a cost-effective response for influenza control and prevention . 
Protozoan parasites of the genus Leishmania alternate between flagellated , elongated extracellular promastigotes found in insect vectors , and round-shaped amastigotes enclosed in phagolysosome-like Parasitophorous Vacuoles ( PVs ) of infected mammalian host cells . Leishmania amazonensis amastigotes occupy large PVs which may contain many parasites; in contrast , single amastigotes of Leishmania major lodge in small , tight PVs , which undergo fission as parasites divide . To determine if PVs of these Leishmania species can fuse with each other , mouse macrophages in culture were infected with non-fluorescent L . amazonensis amastigotes and , 48 h later , superinfected with fluorescent L . major amastigotes or promastigotes . Fusion was investigated by time-lapse image acquisition of living cells and inferred from the colocalization of parasites of the two species in the same PVs . Survival , multiplication and differentiation of parasites that did or did not share the same vacuoles were also investigated . Fusion of PVs containing L . amazonensis and L . major amastigotes was not found . However , PVs containing L . major promastigotes did fuse with pre-established L . amazonensis PVs . In these chimeric vacuoles , L . major promastigotes remained motile and multiplied , but did not differentiate into amastigotes . In contrast , in doubly infected cells , within their own , unfused PVs metacyclic-enriched L . major promastigotes , but not log phase promastigotes - which we
To further investigate the importance of insulin signaling in the growth , development , sexual maturation and egg production of adult schistosomes , we have focused attention on the insulin receptors ( SjIRs ) of Schistosoma japonicum , which we have previously cloned and partially characterised . We now show , by Biolayer Interferometry , that human insulin can bind the L1 subdomain ( insulin binding domain ) of recombinant ( r ) SjIR1 and rSjIR2 ( designated SjLD1 and SjLD2 ) produced using the Drosophila S2 protein expression system . We have then used RNA interference ( RNAi ) to knock down the expression of the SjIRs in adult S . japonicum in vitro and show that , in addition to their reduced transcription , the transcript levels of other important downstream genes within the insulin pathway , associated with glucose metabolism and schistosome fecundity , were also impacted substantially . Further , a significant decrease in glucose uptake was observed in the SjIR-knockdown worms compared with luciferase controls . In vaccine/challenge experiments , we found that rSjLD1 and rSjLD2 depressed female growth , intestinal granuloma density and faecal egg production in S . japonicum in mice presented with a low dose challenge infection . These data re-emphasize the potential of the SjIRs as veterinary transmission blocking vaccine candidates against zoonotic schistosomiasis japonica in China and the Philippines . 
Primate lentivirus nef is required for sustained virus replication in vivo and accelerated progression to AIDS . While exploring the mechanism by which Nef increases the infectivity of cell-free virions , we investigated a functional link between Nef and Env . Since we failed to detect an effect of Nef on the quantity of virion-associated Env , we searched for qualitative changes by examining whether Nef alters HIV-1 sensitivity to agents that target distinct features of Env . Nef conferred as much as 50-fold resistance to 2F5 and 4E10 , two potent neutralizing monoclonal antibodies ( nAbs ) that target the membrane proximal external region ( MPER ) of TMgp41 . In contrast , Nef had no effect on HIV-1 neutralization by MPER-specific nAb Z13e1 , by the peptide inhibitor T20 , nor by a panel of nAbs and other reagents targeting gp120 . Resistance to neutralization by 2F5 and 4E10 was observed with Nef from a diverse range of HIV-1 and SIV isolates , as well as with HIV-1 virions bearing Env from CCR5- and CXCR4-tropic viruses , clade B and C viruses , or primary isolates . Functional analysis of a panel of Nef mutants revealed that this activity requires Nef myristoylation but that it is genetically separable from other Nef functions such as the ability to enhance virus infectivity and to downregulate CD4 . Glycosylated-Gag from MoMLV substituted for Nef in conferring resistance to 2F5 and 4E10 , indicating that this activity is conserved in a retrovirus that does not encode Ne
The RNA polymerase II ( Pol II ) is a eukaryotic enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of the messenger RNA using a DNA template . Despite numerous biochemical and biophysical studies , it remains elusive whether the “secondary channel” is the only route for NTP to reach the active site of the enzyme or if the “main channel” could be an alternative . On this regard , crystallographic structures of Pol II have been extremely useful to understand the structural basis of transcription , however , the conformation of the unpaired non-template DNA part of the full transcription bubble ( TB ) is still unknown . Since diffusion routes of the nucleoside triphosphate ( NTP ) substrate through the main channel might overlap with the TB region , gaining structural information of the full TB is critical for a complete understanding of Pol II transcription process . In this study , we have built a structural model of Pol II with a complete transcription bubble based on multiple sources of existing structural data and used Molecular Dynamics ( MD ) simulations together with structural analysis to shed light on NTP entry pathways . Interestingly , we found that although both channels have enough space to allow NTP loading , the percentage of MD conformations containing enough space for NTP loading through the secondary channel is twice higher than that of the main channel . Further energetic study based on MD simulations with NTP loaded in the channels has revealed that the diffusion of the N
Visual object recognition and sensitivity to image features are largely influenced by contextual inputs . We study influences by contextual bars on the bias to perceive or infer the presence of a target bar , rather than on the sensitivity to image features . Human observers judged from a briefly presented stimulus whether a target bar of a known orientation and shape is present at the center of a display , given a weak or missing input contrast at the target location with or without a context of other bars . Observers are more likely to perceive a target when the context has a weaker rather than stronger contrast . When the context can perceptually group well with the would-be target , weak contrast contextual bars bias the observers to perceive a target relative to the condition without contexts , as if to fill in the target . Meanwhile , high-contrast contextual bars , regardless of whether they group well with the target , bias the observers to perceive no target . A Bayesian model of visual inference is shown to account for the data well , illustrating that the context influences the perception in two ways: ( 1 ) biasing observers' prior belief that a target should be present according to visual grouping principles , and ( 2 ) biasing observers' internal model of the likely input contrasts caused by a target bar . According to this model , our data suggest that the context does not influence the perceived target contrast despite its influence on the bias to perceive the 
Lectin-like bacteriotoxic proteins , identified in several plant-associated bacteria , are able to selectively kill closely related species , including several phytopathogens , such as Pseudomonas syringae and Xanthomonas species , but so far their mode of action remains unrevealed . The crystal structure of LlpABW , the prototype lectin-like bacteriocin from Pseudomonas putida , reveals an architecture of two monocot mannose-binding lectin ( MMBL ) domains and a C-terminal β-hairpin extension . The C-terminal MMBL domain ( C-domain ) adopts a fold very similar to MMBL domains from plant lectins and contains a binding site for mannose and oligomannosides . Mutational analysis indicates that an intact sugar-binding pocket in this domain is crucial for bactericidal activity . The N-terminal MMBL domain ( N-domain ) adopts the same fold but is structurally more divergent and lacks a functional mannose-binding site . Differential activity of engineered N/C-domain chimers derived from two LlpA homologues with different killing spectra , disclosed that the N-domain determines target specificity . Apparently this bacteriocin is assembled from two structurally similar domains that evolved separately towards dedicated functions in target recognition and bacteriotoxicity . 
The genomic GC-content of bacteria varies dramatically , from less than 20% to more than 70% . This variation is generally ascribed to differences in the pattern of mutation between bacteria . Here we test this hypothesis by examining patterns of synonymous polymorphism using datasets from 149 bacterial species . We find a large excess of synonymous GC→AT mutations over AT→GC mutations segregating in all but the most AT-rich bacteria , across a broad range of phylogenetically diverse species . We show that the excess of GC→AT mutations is inconsistent with mutation bias , since it would imply that most GC-rich bacteria are declining in GC-content; such a pattern would be unsustainable . We also show that the patterns are probably not due to translational selection or biased gene conversion , because optimal codons tend to be AT-rich , and the excess of GC→AT SNPs is observed in datasets with no evidence of recombination . We therefore conclude that there is selection to increase synonymous GC-content in many species . Since synonymous GC-content is highly correlated to genomic GC-content , we further conclude that there is selection on genomic base composition in many bacteria . 
The expansion of CAG/CTG repeats is responsible for many diseases , including Huntington's disease ( HD ) and myotonic dystrophy 1 . CAG/CTG expansions are unstable in selective somatic tissues , which accelerates disease progression . The mechanisms underlying repeat instability are complex , and it remains unclear whether chromatin structure and/or transcription contribute to somatic CAG/CTG instability in vivo . To address these issues , we investigated the relationship between CAG instability , chromatin structure , and transcription at the HD locus using the R6/1 and R6/2 HD transgenic mouse lines . These mice express a similar transgene , albeit integrated at a different site , and recapitulate HD tissue-specific instability . We show that instability rates are increased in R6/2 tissues as compared to R6/1 matched-samples . High transgene expression levels and chromatin accessibility correlated with the increased CAG instability of R6/2 mice . Transgene mRNA and H3K4 trimethylation at the HD locus were increased , whereas H3K9 dimethylation was reduced in R6/2 tissues relative to R6/1 matched-tissues . However , the levels of transgene expression and these specific histone marks were similar in the striatum and cerebellum , two tissues showing very different CAG instability levels , irrespective of mouse line . Interestingly , the levels of elongating RNA Pol II at the HD locus , but not the initiating form of RNA Pol II , were tissue-specific and correlated with CAG in
Research on Neglected Tropical Diseases ( NTDs ) has increased in recent decades , and significant need-gaps in diagnostic and treatment tools remain . Analysing bibliometric data from published research is a powerful method for revealing research efforts , partnerships and expertise . We aim to identify and map NTD research networks in Germany and their partners abroad to enable an informed and transparent evaluation of German contributions to NTD research . A SCOPUS database search for articles with German author affiliations that were published between 2002 and 2012 was conducted for kinetoplastid and helminth diseases . Open-access tools were used for data cleaning and scientometrics ( OpenRefine ) , geocoding ( OpenStreetMaps ) and to create ( Table2Net ) , visualise and analyse co-authorship networks ( Gephi ) . From 26 , 833 publications from around the world that addressed 11 diseases , we identified 1 , 187 ( 4 . 4% ) with at least one German author affiliation , and we processed 972 publications for the five most published-about diseases . Of those , we extracted 4 , 007 individual authors and 863 research institutions to construct co-author networks . The majority of co-authors outside Germany were from high-income countries and Brazil . Collaborations with partners on the African continent remain scattered . NTD research within Germany was distributed among 220 research institutions . We identified strong performers on an individual level by using classic paramete
Chagas disease is the most important vector-borne disease in Latin America . Regional initiatives based on residual insecticide spraying have successfully controlled domiciliated vectors in many regions . Non-domiciliated vectors remain responsible for a significant transmission risk , and their control is now a key challenge for disease control . A mathematical model was developed to predict the temporal variations in abundance of non-domiciliated vectors inside houses . Demographic parameters were estimated by fitting the model to two years of field data from the Yucatan peninsula , Mexico . The predictive value of the model was tested on an independent data set before simulations examined the efficacy of control strategies based on residual insecticide spraying , insect screens , and bednets . The model accurately fitted and predicted field data in the absence and presence of insecticide spraying . Pyrethroid spraying was found effective when 50 mg/m2 were applied yearly within a two-month period matching the immigration season . The >80% reduction in bug abundance was not improved by larger doses or more frequent interventions , and it decreased drastically for different timing and lower frequencies of intervention . Alternatively , the use of insect screens consistently reduced bug abundance proportionally to the reduction of the vector immigration rate . Control of non-domiciliated vectors can hardly be achieved by insecticide spraying , because it would require yearly 
The weight with which a specific outcome feature contributes to preference quantifies a person’s ‘taste’ for that feature . However , far from being fixed personality characteristics , tastes are plastic . They tend to align , for example , with those of others even if such conformity is not rewarded . We hypothesised that people can be uncertain about their tastes . Personal tastes are therefore uncertain beliefs . People can thus learn about them by considering evidence , such as the preferences of relevant others , and then performing Bayesian updating . If a person’s choice variability reflects uncertainty , as in random-preference models , then a signature of Bayesian updating is that the degree of taste change should correlate with that person’s choice variability . Temporal discounting coefficients are an important example of taste–for patience . These coefficients quantify impulsivity , have good psychometric properties and can change upon observing others’ choices . We examined discounting preferences in a novel , large community study of 14–24 year olds . We assessed discounting behaviour , including decision variability , before and after participants observed another person’s choices . We found good evidence for taste uncertainty and for Bayesian taste updating . First , participants displayed decision variability which was better accounted for by a random-taste than by a response-noise model . Second , apparent taste shifts were well described by a Bayesian model
Rice is an important monocotyledonous crop worldwide; it differs from the dicotyledonous plant Arabidopsis in many aspects . In Arabidopsis , ethylene and auxin act synergistically to regulate root growth and development . However , their interaction in rice is still unclear . Here , we report that the transcriptional activation of OsEIL1 on the expression of YUC8/REIN7 and indole-3-pyruvic acid ( IPA ) -dependent auxin biosynthesis is required for ethylene-inhibited root elongation . Using an inhibitor of YUC activity , which regulates auxin biosynthesis via the conversion of IPA to indole-3-acetic acid ( IAA ) , we showed that ethylene-inhibited primary root elongation is dependent on YUC-based auxin biosynthesis . By screening phenotypes of seedling primary root from mutagenesis libraries following ethylene treatment , we identified a rice ethylene-insensitive mutant , rein7-1 , in which YUC8/REIN7 is truncated at its C-terminus . Mutation in YUC8/REIN7 reduced auxin biosynthesis in rice , while YUC8/REIN7 overexpression enhanced ethylene sensitivity in the roots . Moreover , YUC8/REIN7 catalyzed the conversion of IPA to IAA , truncated version at C-terminal end of the YUC8/REIN7 resulted in significant reduction of enzymatic activity , indicating that YUC8/REIN7 is required for IPA-dependent auxin biosynthesis and ethylene-inhibited root elongation in rice early seedlings . Further investigations indicated that ethylene induced YUC8/REIN7 expression and promoted auxin acc
The long noncoding MALAT1 RNA is upregulated in cancer tissues and its elevated expression is associated with hyper-proliferation , but the underlying mechanism is poorly understood . We demonstrate that MALAT1 levels are regulated during normal cell cycle progression . Genome-wide transcriptome analyses in normal human diploid fibroblasts reveal that MALAT1 modulates the expression of cell cycle genes and is required for G1/S and mitotic progression . Depletion of MALAT1 leads to activation of p53 and its target genes . The cell cycle defects observed in MALAT1-depleted cells are sensitive to p53 levels , indicating that p53 is a major downstream mediator of MALAT1 activity . Furthermore , MALAT1-depleted cells display reduced expression of B-MYB ( Mybl2 ) , an oncogenic transcription factor involved in G2/M progression , due to altered binding of splicing factors on B-MYB pre-mRNA and aberrant alternative splicing . In human cells , MALAT1 promotes cellular proliferation by modulating the expression and/or pre-mRNA processing of cell cycle–regulated transcription factors . These findings provide mechanistic insights on the role of MALAT1 in regulating cellular proliferation . 
The majority of HIV-1 infections in women occur through vaginal intercourse , in which virus-containing semen is deposited on the cervico-vaginal mucosa . Semen is more than a mere carrier of HIV-1 , since it contains many biological factors , in particular cytokines , that may affect HIV-1 transmission . The concentration of interleukin ( IL ) -7 , one of the most prominent cytokines in semen of healthy individuals , is further increased in semen of HIV-1-infected men . Here , we investigated the potential role of IL-7 in HIV-1 vaginal transmission in an ex vivo system of human cervico-vaginal tissue . We simulated an in vivo situation by depositing HIV-1 on cervico-vaginal tissue in combination with IL-7 at concentrations comparable with those measured in semen of HIV-1-infected individuals . We found that IL-7 significantly enhanced virus replication in ex vivo infected cervico-vaginal tissue . Similarly , we observed an enhancement of HIV-1 replication in lymphoid tissue explants . Analysis of T cells isolated from infected tissues showed that IL-7 reduced CD4+ T cell depletion preventing apoptosis , as shown by the decrease in the number of cells expressing the apoptotic marker APO2 . 7 and the increase in the expression of the anti-apoptotic protein B-cell lymphoma ( Bcl ) -2 . Also , IL-7 increased the fraction of cycling CD4+ T cells , as evidenced by staining for the nuclear factor Ki-67 . High levels of seminal IL-7 in vivo may be relevant to the survival of the fou
The evolutionary origins of genetic robustness are still under debate: it may arise as a consequence of requirements imposed by varying environmental conditions , due to intrinsic factors such as metabolic requirements , or directly due to an adaptive selection in favor of genes that allow a species to endure genetic perturbations . Stratifying the individual effects of each origin requires one to study the pertaining evolutionary forces across many species under diverse conditions . Here we conduct the first large-scale computational study charting the level of robustness of metabolic networks of hundreds of bacterial species across many simulated growth environments . We provide evidence that variations among species in their level of robustness reflect ecological adaptations . We decouple metabolic robustness into two components and quantify the extents of each: the first , environmental-dependent , is responsible for at least 20% of the non-essential reactions and its extent is associated with the species' lifestyle ( specialized/generalist ) ; the second , environmental-independent , is associated ( correlation = ∼0 . 6 ) with the intrinsic metabolic capacities of a species—higher robustness is observed in fast growers or in organisms with an extensive production of secondary metabolites . Finally , we identify reactions that are uniquely susceptible to perturbations in human pathogens , potentially serving as novel drug-targets . 
Histone chaperones CAF-1 and Asf1 function to deposit newly synthesized histones onto replicating DNA to promote nucleosome formation in a proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( PCNA ) dependent process . The DNA replication- or DNA repair-coupled nucleosome assembly pathways are important for maintenance of transcriptional gene silencing and genome stability . However , how these pathways are regulated is not well understood . Here we report an interaction between the Elongator histone acetyltransferase and the proliferating cell nuclear antigen . Cells lacking Elp3 ( K-acetyltransferase Kat9 ) , the catalytic subunit of the six-subunit Elongator complex , partially lose silencing of reporter genes at the chromosome VIIL telomere and at the HMR locus , and are sensitive to the DNA replication inhibitor hydroxyurea ( HU ) and the damaging agent methyl methanesulfonate ( MMS ) . Like deletion of the ELP3 , mutation of each of the four other subunits of the Elongator complex as well as mutations in Elp3 that compromise the formation of the Elongator complex also result in loss of silencing and increased HU sensitivity . Moreover , Elp3 is required for S-phase progression in the presence of HU . Epistasis analysis indicates that the elp3Δ mutant , which itself is sensitive to MMS , exacerbates the MMS sensitivity of cells lacking histone chaperones Asf1 , CAF-1 and the H3 lysine 56 acetyltransferase Rtt109 . The elp3Δ mutant has allele specific genetic interactions with mutations 
Vaccination is an effective method to protect against infectious diseases . An important consideration in any vaccine formulation is the inoculum dose , i . e . , amount of antigen or live attenuated pathogen that is used . Higher levels generally lead to better stimulation of the immune response but might cause more severe side effects and allow for less population coverage in the presence of vaccine shortages . Determining the optimal amount of inoculum dose is an important component of rational vaccine design . A combination of mathematical models with experimental data can help determine the impact of the inoculum dose . We illustrate the concept of using data and models to inform inoculum dose determination for vaccines , wby fitting a mathematical model to data from influenza A virus ( IAV ) infection of mice and human parainfluenza virus ( HPIV ) infection of cotton rats at different inoculum doses . We use the model to map inoculum dose to the level of immune protection and morbidity and to explore how such a framework might be used to determine an optimal inoculum dose . We show how a framework that combines mathematical models with experimental data can be used to study the impact of inoculum dose on important outcomes such as immune protection and morbidity . Our findings illustrate that the impact of inoculum dose on immune protection and morbidity can depend on the specific pathogen and that both protection and morbidity do not necessarily increase monotonically 
Changes in genomic DNA methylation patterns are generally assumed to play an important role in the etiology of human cancers . The Dnmt3a enzyme is required for the establishment of normal methylation patterns , and mutations in Dnmt3a have been described in leukemias . Deletion of Dnmt3a in a K-ras–dependent mouse lung cancer model has been shown to promote tumor progression , which suggested that the enzyme might suppress tumor development by stabilizing DNA methylation patterns . We have used whole-genome bisulfite sequencing to comprehensively characterize the methylomes from Dnmt3a wildtype and Dnmt3a-deficient mouse lung tumors . Our results show that profound global methylation changes can occur in K-ras–induced lung cancer . Dnmt3a wild-type tumors were characterized by large hypomethylated domains that correspond to nuclear lamina-associated domains . In contrast , Dnmt3a-deficient tumors showed a uniformly hypomethylated genome . Further data analysis revealed that Dnmt3a is required for efficient maintenance methylation of active chromosome domains and that Dnmt3a-deficient tumors show moderate levels of gene deregulation in these domains . In summary , our results uncover conserved features of cancer methylomes and define the role of Dnmt3a in maintaining DNA methylation patterns in cancer . 
The PR interval on the electrocardiogram reflects atrial and atrioventricular nodal conduction time . The PR interval is heritable , provides important information about arrhythmia risk , and has been suggested to differ among human races . Genome-wide association ( GWA ) studies have identified common genetic determinants of the PR interval in individuals of European and Asian ancestry , but there is a general paucity of GWA studies in individuals of African ancestry . We performed GWA studies in African American individuals from four cohorts ( n = 6 , 247 ) to identify genetic variants associated with PR interval duration . Genotyping was performed using the Affymetrix 6 . 0 microarray . Imputation was performed for 2 . 8 million single nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs ) using combined YRI and CEU HapMap phase II panels . We observed a strong signal ( rs3922844 ) within the gene encoding the cardiac sodium channel ( SCN5A ) with genome-wide significant association ( p<2 . 5×10−8 ) in two of the four cohorts and in the meta-analysis . The signal explained 2% of PR interval variability in African Americans ( beta = 5 . 1 msec per minor allele , 95% CI = 4 . 1–6 . 1 , p = 3×10−23 ) . This SNP was also associated with PR interval ( beta = 2 . 4 msec per minor allele , 95% CI = 1 . 8–3 . 0 , p = 3×10−16 ) in individuals of European ancestry ( n = 14 , 042 ) , but with a smaller effect size ( p for heterogeneity <0 . 001 ) and variability explained ( 0 . 5% ) . Further meta-analys
Inhibitory interneurons play critical roles in shaping the firing patterns of principal neurons in many brain systems . Despite difference in the anatomy or functions of neuronal circuits containing inhibition , two basic motifs repeatedly emerge: feed-forward and feedback . In the locust , it was proposed that a subset of lateral horn interneurons ( LHNs ) , provide feed-forward inhibition onto Kenyon cells ( KCs ) to maintain their sparse firing—a property critical for olfactory learning and memory . But recently it was established that a single inhibitory cell , the giant GABAergic neuron ( GGN ) , is the main and perhaps sole source of inhibition in the mushroom body , and that inhibition from this cell is mediated by a feedback ( FB ) loop including KCs and the GGN . To clarify basic differences in the effects of feedback vs . feed-forward inhibition in circuit dynamics we here use a model of the locust olfactory system . We found both inhibitory motifs were able to maintain sparse KCs responses and provide optimal odor discrimination . However , we further found that only FB inhibition could create a phase response consistent with data recorded in vivo . These findings describe general rules for feed-forward versus feedback inhibition and suggest GGN is potentially capable of providing the primary source of inhibition to the KCs . A better understanding of how inhibitory motifs impact post-synaptic neuronal activity could be used to reveal unknown inhibitory structures 
The BRCA Challenge is a long-term data-sharing project initiated within the Global Alliance for Genomics and Health ( GA4GH ) to aggregate BRCA1 and BRCA2 data to support highly collaborative research activities . Its goal is to generate an informed and current understanding of the impact of genetic variation on cancer risk across the iconic cancer predisposition genes , BRCA1 and BRCA2 . Initially , reported variants in BRCA1 and BRCA2 available from public databases were integrated into a single , newly created site , www . brcaexchange . org . The purpose of the BRCA Exchange is to provide the community with a reliable and easily accessible record of variants interpreted for a high-penetrance phenotype . More than 20 , 000 variants have been aggregated , three times the number found in the next-largest public database at the project’s outset , of which approximately 7 , 250 have expert classifications . The data set is based on shared information from existing clinical databases—Breast Cancer Information Core ( BIC ) , ClinVar , and the Leiden Open Variation Database ( LOVD ) —as well as population databases , all linked to a single point of access . The BRCA Challenge has brought together the existing international Evidence-based Network for the Interpretation of Germline Mutant Alleles ( ENIGMA ) consortium expert panel , along with expert clinicians , diagnosticians , researchers , and database providers , all with a common goal of advancing our understanding of BRCA1 a
The small GTPase RAS is among the most prevalent oncogenes . The evolutionarily conserved RAF-MEK-MAPK module that lies downstream of RAS is one of the main conduits through which RAS transmits proliferative signals in normal and cancer cells . Genetic and biochemical studies conducted over the last two decades uncovered a small set of factors regulating RAS/MAPK signaling . Interestingly , most of these were found to control RAF activation , thus suggesting a central regulatory role for this event . Whether additional factors are required at this level or further downstream remains an open question . To obtain a comprehensive view of the elements functionally linked to the RAS/MAPK cascade , we used a quantitative assay in Drosophila S2 cells to conduct a genome-wide RNAi screen for factors impacting RAS-mediated MAPK activation . The screen led to the identification of 101 validated hits , including most of the previously known factors associated to this pathway . Epistasis experiments were then carried out on individual candidates to determine their position relative to core pathway components . While this revealed several new factors acting at different steps along the pathway—including a new protein complex modulating RAF activation—we found that most hits unexpectedly work downstream of MEK and specifically influence MAPK expression . These hits mainly consist of constitutive splicing factors and thereby suggest that splicing plays a specific role in establishing MAPK l
Recent years have seen the development of numerous methodologies for reconstructing transmission trees in infectious disease outbreaks from densely sampled whole genome sequence data . However , a fundamental and as of yet poorly addressed limitation of such approaches is the requirement for genetic diversity to arise on epidemiological timescales . Specifically , the position of infected individuals in a transmission tree can only be resolved by genetic data if mutations have accumulated between the sampled pathogen genomes . To quantify and compare the useful genetic diversity expected from genetic data in different pathogen outbreaks , we introduce here the concept of ‘transmission divergence’ , defined as the number of mutations separating whole genome sequences sampled from transmission pairs . Using parameter values obtained by literature review , we simulate outbreak scenarios alongside sequence evolution using two models described in the literature to describe transmission divergence of ten major outbreak-causing pathogens . We find that while mean values vary significantly between the pathogens considered , their transmission divergence is generally very low , with many outbreaks characterised by large numbers of genetically identical transmission pairs . We describe the impact of transmission divergence on our ability to reconstruct outbreaks using two outbreak reconstruction tools , the R packages outbreaker and phybreak , and demonstrate that , in agreement with p
Hyperendemic circulation of all four types of dengue virus ( DENV-1-4 ) has expanded globally , fueling concern for increased incidence of severe dengue . While the majority of DENV infections are subclinical , epidemiologic studies suggest that type-cross-reactive immunity can influence disease outcome in subsequent infections . The mechanisms controlling these differential clinical outcomes remain poorly defined . Blood samples were collected from a cohort of school-aged Thai children who subsequently experienced a subclinical DENV infection or developed dengue illness . PBMC collected prior to infection were stimulated in vitro with DENV and the secretion of 30 cytokines was measured using a multiplexed , bead-based array . Significant differences were found in cytokine production based on both the type of DENV used for stimulation and the occurrence of clinical illness . Secretion of IL-15 and MCP-1 was significantly higher by PBMC of subjects who later developed symptomatic DENV infection . In addition , IL-6 was produced by PBMC from all subjects who subsequently developed symptomatic infection , versus 59% of subjects who had subclinical infection . Secretion of IL-12 , IL-2R , MIP-1α , RANTES , GM-CSF , and TNFα was significantly lower by PBMC from subjects with symptomatic infection . These data demonstrate significant differences in pre-existing immune responses to DENV associated with the clinical outcome of subsequent infection . The finding of higher levels of so
