Lung-resident mesenchymal stem and stromal cells (MSCs) play a crucial role in maintaining lung homeostasis and regeneration. During respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection, these cells are activated and contribute to the antiviral response and inflammation, as well as tissue repair and regeneration. In vitro studies using primary pediatric lung-resident MSCs and an advanced human RSV infection model in lambs revealed that RSV infection activates lung-resident MSCs, leading to an expansion of the pulmonary MSC pool and a global transcriptional response that shifts from an early antiviral signature to repair mechanisms. These findings suggest that lung-resident MSCs play a significant role in virus-induced lung injury and may have therapeutic implications.Introduction:Lung-resident mesenchymal stem and stromal cells (MSCs) are essential for lung homeostasis and regeneration. They are localized in the alveolar niche and interact with epithelial cells to promote growth, differentiation, and self-renewal. The role of lung-resident MSCs in lung repair and regeneration is particularly important, as failure of these mechanisms may contribute to chronic lung diseases. Lung-resident MSCs can interact with immune cells through cellular contact or paracrine mechanisms, making their immunomodulatory properties crucial for cell-based treatment approaches for various lung disorders. Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a highly prevalent virus that causes severe outcomes in infants and the elderly. The lamb model is the best animal model for studying RSV infection, as it closely reflects the anatomical and immunological properties of the human pediatric lung. Despite the importance of MSCs in lung health, their role during acute respiratory infection and virus-induced injury is unknown. We hypothesized that lung-resident MSCs, in particular, play a role in RSV infection and aimed to explore their function using primary lung-resident MSCs isolated from human pediatric donors and a translational model of human RSV infection in lambs.Keywords: lung-resident mesenchymal stem and stromal cells, respiratory syncytial virus, lung regeneration, lung repair, lung homeostasis, pediatric lung disease, human RSV infection, lamb model, immunomodulatory properties, lung-resident MSC pool, transcriptional response.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL), also known as kala-azar, is a parasitic disease endemic in South Sudan, where pregnant women are particularly vulnerable to complications. In this study, we analyzed data from a cohort of pregnant women diagnosed with VL at a health facility in Lankien, South Sudan, between October 2014 and April 2018. We compared their clinical characteristics and pregnancy outcomes with those of non-pregnant women diagnosed with VL during the same period. Pregnant women with VL presented with more severe anemia, were more likely to require blood transfusions and antibiotics, and had higher rates of adverse pregnancy outcomes, including miscarriage and premature delivery. However, overall initial cure rates were high, and mortality was low. Our findings suggest that good maternal survival rates are possible in resource-limited settings, despite the high incidence of complications. This is the largest cohort study of VL in pregnancy to date. The data highlights the importance of providing appropriate treatment for pregnant women with VL, as untreated disease can be fatal for the mother, fetus, or newborn. The current recommended treatment for VL in pregnancy is intravenous infusions of liposomal amphotericin B.
A study was conducted to understand the circulating strains of Salmonella enterica subspecies enterica serovar Typhi (S. Typhi) in Kibera, an urban informal settlement in Nairobi, Kenya, and their antimicrobial resistance attributes. Over a 12-year period (2007-2019), 310 S. Typhi isolates were genetically characterized using whole genome multi-locus sequence typing (wgMLST). Four clades were identified, with the predominant clade containing 93.5% of isolates, all of which were genotypes 4.3.1.1 and 4.3.1.2, and had resistance determinants for aminoglycosides, sulphonamides, trimethoprim, tetracycline, chloramphenicol, β-lactams, and quinolones. Multidrug resistance (MDR) determinants were found in 75.8% of isolates, and the prevalence of quinolone resistance determinants increased following a decline in S. Typhi in Kibera. Some isolates harbored both MDR and quinolone resistance determinants. Plasmid markers were identified in 72.9% of isolates, including IncHI1A and IncHI1B (R27) in 72.9% and IncQ1 in 76.8%. Molecular clock analysis suggests that genotype 4.3.1 has been introduced multiple times in Kibera, with some isolates forming a clade with isolates from Kenya, Malawi, South Africa, and Tanzania. The most recent common ancestor for these isolates was from around 1997. The findings indicate that S. Typhi in Kibera belong to four wgMLST clades, one of which is frequently associated with MDR genes, posing a challenge in treatment and control.
Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the third novel coronavirus in two decades to cause significant human mortality, with over 5 million deaths worldwide. Vaccines are available but their distribution has been slow, and new variants with immune escape potential are emerging. In this study, researchers screened plasma from convalescent subjects for IgG against the stabilized pre-fusion SARS-CoV-2 spike S2 domain, which is highly conserved among human beta-coronaviruses. They identified several S2-specific human monoclonal antibodies (hmAbs) that neutralized SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern (VoC) and recognized all human beta-coronaviruses. The most potent and broad hmAb, 1249A8, neutralized SARS-CoV, MERS-CoV, and all VoC tested. In vivo, 1249A8 protected hamsters from weight loss and reduced viral burden when administered intranasally 12 hours after infection. The combination of 1249A8 with another S1-specific neutralizing hmAb, 1213H7, further enhanced therapeutic activity. These findings suggest that potent universal coronavirus neutralizing mAbs with therapeutic potential can be induced in humans and can guide universal coronavirus vaccine development.SARS-CoV-2 is a beta-coronavirus that causes respiratory illness, with the spike (S) glycoprotein playing a crucial role in attachment to the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor and membrane fusion. The S protein is synthesized as a precursor, which is cleaved into the S1 and S2 domains. The S1 domain mediates attachment to the receptor, while the S2 domain mediates membrane fusion. While S1 domains exhibit substantial variation, S2 domains are highly conserved, suggesting low tolerance for variation without compromising viral fitness. Antibody responses to S2 are increased in some individuals following SARS-CoV-2 infection, but development of S2-specific Abs is limited compared to those specific for S1. Most S1 Abs are neutralizing, but only a small fraction of S2 Abs are neutralizing.The study identified several S2-specific hmAbs with broad CoV reactivity, neutralizing activity, and antibody-dependent phagocytosis activity. The most potent and broad S2-specific hmAb, 1249A8, demonstrated prophylactic and therapeutic activity against SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV in multiple animal models. The combination of 1249A8 with the S1-specific hmAb 1213H7 was evaluated for possible synergistic effects and delivered to the respiratory tract for improved dose delivery efficiency. These findings demonstrate the universal beta-CoV therapeutic potential of S2 hmAb directly.
In the study, researchers investigated the metabolism of the yeast Candida parapsilosis on hydroxyaromatic substrates, specifically the 3-oxoadipate and gentisate pathways, which are crucial for the utilization of hydroxyderivatives of benzene and benzoic acid. The researchers determined the chromosome-level assembly of the C. parapsilosis strain CLIB214 and used it for transcriptomic and proteomic analysis. They found that genes encoding enzymes and plasma membrane transporters involved in the 3-oxoadipate and gentisate pathways are highly upregulated and their expression is controlled in a substrate-specific manner. The researchers also identified putative transcriptional factors OTF1 and GTF1, located within these gene clusters, that function as transcriptional activators of the 3-oxoadipate and gentisate pathway, respectively. The activation of both pathways is accompanied by upregulation of genes for the enzymes involved in β-oxidation of fatty acids, glyoxylate cycle, amino acid metabolism, and peroxisome biogenesis. The results reveal differences in the cell responses to hydroxybenzoates and hydroxybenzenes, and the researchers propose that bicarbonate ions may contribute to these differences. The phylogenetic analysis highlights evolutionary paths leading to metabolic adaptations of yeast cells assimilating hydroxyaromatic substrates.Introduction:Metabolic gene clusters (MGCs) are groups of co-localized genes whose products participate in the same metabolic pathway. They encode enzymes catalyzing reactions in a biochemical pathway, membrane transporters for substrates or metabolites, and transcription factors that control the expression of corresponding genes. The occurrence of MGCs in eukaryotic genomes was originally considered rare, but they are now known to be a common feature of fungal and plant genomes. Investigations of MGCs provide insights into their evolutionary origin, genetic organization, and expression, as well as the coordination of the corresponding biochemical pathways with the central cellular metabolism. In this study, researchers investigate the regulation of the 3-oxoadipate (3-OAP) and gentisate (GP) pathways in Candida parapsilosis, which are involved in the catabolic degradation of a broad spectrum of hydroxyderivatives of benzene and benzoic acid. The 3-hydroxybenzoate and gentisate are metabolized via the GP, while 4-hydroxybenzoate, 2,4-dihydroxybenzoate, protocatechuate, hydroquinone, and resorcinol are degraded via the hydroxyhydroquinone (HHQ) branch of the 3-OAP. The resulting products of both biochemical pathways can be channeled into the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle operating in mitochondria. The enzymes catalyzing the last two steps of the 3-OAP are imported into mitochondria, and plasma membrane transporters for hydroxybenzoates have also been identified. While both pathways are repressed in cells assimilating glucose, corresponding genes are highly induced during cultivation on media containing a hydroxyaromatic substrate as a sole carbon source. The transcriptional factors involved in this regulation have not yet been identified, but both MGCs contain a gene for an uncharacterized zinc cluster transcription factor representing a candidate transcriptional activator of the corresponding pathway. In this study, researchers investigate the regulation of the 3-OAP and GP as well as the coordination of both pathways with central metabolism and organelle biogenesis. Using the analysis of transcriptomic and proteomic profiles of C. parapsilosis cells assimilating hydroxyaromatic compounds, they show that the induction of both pathways is accompanied by the upregulation of genes whose products are involved in β-oxidation of fatty acids, glyoxylate cycle, metabolism of amino acids, and the biogenesis of peroxisomes. Their results also highlight differences between the metabolism of hydroxybenzoates and hydroxybenzenes. Moreover, they demonstrate experimentally that putative transcription factors named Gtf1p and Otf1p function as transcriptional activators of the GP and 3-OAP genes, respectively. Their phylogenetic analysis sheds
In this study, researchers developed a new method called "oracle-supervised Neural Engineering Framework" (osNEF) to train biologically-detailed spiking neural networks that can perform various computations commonly found in cognitive systems. The networks were trained using four distinct neuron models and various synaptic models, and the results showed that the networks could exhibit the target dynamics while accounting for nonlinearities present within the neuron models. The researchers also applied osNEF to build a model of working memory that performed a delayed response task using a combination of pyramidal cells and inhibitory interneurons connected with NMDA and GABA synapses. The model's baseline performance and forgetting rate were consistent with animal data from delayed match-to-sample tasks, demonstrating the potential of osNEF to train functional brain models using biologically-detailed components and opening new avenues for investigating the relationship between biophysical mechanisms and functional capabilities.
Down syndrome (DS), caused by the trisomy of human chromosome 21 (HSA21), is a genetic disorder that leads to a range of developmental and health issues. While the presence of an extra copy of HSA21 genes was initially thought to result in their overexpression, recent research shows that the condition leads to a genome-wide transcriptomic deregulation. In this study, researchers conducted a meta-analysis of all publicly available transcriptomic datasets comparing trisomic and euploid transcriptomes from human and mouse sources. They found that the deregulation of genes is not arbitrary but involves specific molecular cascades where both HSA21 genes and their interactors are consistently deregulated. These events of "co-deregulation" often involve genes belonging to the same functional categories and disease classes. The most consistent changes were found in interferon-related categories and neutrophil activation, reinforcing the concept that DS is an inflammatory disease. The findings suggest that the impact of the trisomy may differ in each tissue due to the unique gene set deregulation, even though the triplicated genes are the same. The researchers also developed an R package called "metaDEA" to integrate every type of transcriptomic data and a user-friendly web application to query Ensembl gene IDs and retrieve their differential expression information across the datasets. The study not only confirmed the importance of known genes, such as SOD1, but also identified new ones, such as Etnppl, which could be useful for generating or confirming hypotheses and supporting new therapeutic candidates. The findings provide insights into the complex transcriptomic alterations in DS and could be applied to other complex disorders, such as cancer.
Neuronal activity in the brain can be categorized into two main types: ongoing oscillations and evoked responses. While these two phenomena have typically been studied separately, they may in fact be closely related. One possible explanation for this relationship is that neuronal oscillations have a non-zero mean, which can contribute to the generation of evoked responses through amplitude modulation. In this study, researchers used computational modeling and analysis of a large EEG dataset to demonstrate that intracellular currents in neurons are indeed asymmetric, leading to a non-zero mean of alpha oscillations. They also found that this non-zero mean was present in a large range of model parameters and in the EEG recordings of 90 participants. The results suggest that amplitude modulation of neural oscillations should at least partially explain the generation of evoked responses, and that changes in evoked responses with respect to cognitive conditions, age, or neuropathologies should be considered in relation to oscillatory neuronal dynamics.
Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever virus (CCHFV) is a tick-borne virus that can cause a hemorrhagic fever in humans, with a case fatality rate of up to 40%. The virus has been reported in Africa, Asia, and southern Europe, including recently in Spain. Despite its discovery over 70 years ago, our understanding of CCHFV's pathogenesis remains limited. In this study, we used RNA-Seq in two human liver cell lines (HepG2 and Huh7) infected with CCHFV to examine changes in host gene expression and viral replication simultaneously at 1 and 3 days post-infection. This analysis identified numerous host pathways that were modulated by the virus, including antiviral response and endothelial cell leakage. Notably, the genes encoding DDX60, a cytosolic component of the RIG-I signaling pathway, and OAS2 were both shown to be dysregulated. Additionally, PTPRR was induced in Huh7 cells but not HepG2 cells, which has been associated with the TLR9 signaling cascade and polymorphisms in TLR9 have been linked to poor outcomes in patients. Furthermore, whole-genome sequencing on CCHFV was performed to assess viral diversity over time and its relationship to the host response. This study demonstrates that next-generation mRNA deep-sequencing can be used to not only examine mRNA gene expression but also to examine viral quasispecies and typing of the infecting strain, providing insights into both the virus and host biomarkers that may have implications for prognosis.
Working memory (WM) deficits are a common symptom of schizophrenia, but the cause of these deficits is not fully understood. While most studies have attributed the deficits to decreased capacity, recent research suggests that precision may also play a role. In this study, researchers compared the performance of 60 individuals with schizophrenia and 61 healthy controls in a classical delay-estimation visual working memory task. They evaluated several influential computational models to disentangle the effect of various memory components. The results showed that the model assuming variable precision across items and trials was the best model to explain the performance of both groups. The study found that individuals with schizophrenia exhibited abnormally larger variability of allocating memory resources, rather than resources or capacity per se. This finding was consistent across different visual features and subject cohorts. The findings provide an alternative view to the widely accepted decreased-capacity theory and highlight the importance of elevated resource allocation variability in generating atypical VWM behavior in schizophrenia. The study also demonstrates the utility of Bayesian observer models in characterizing mechanisms of mental deficits in clinical neuroscience.Introduction:Schizophrenia is a severe mental disorder characterized by a range of cognitive and behavioral impairments, including working memory deficits. Working memory is crucial for temporarily storing and manipulating information to guide appropriate behavior. Dysfunctions in working memory can have far-reaching consequences, affecting perception, attention, problem-solving, and executive control. Schizophrenia patients have been shown to perform worse than healthy controls in various working memory tasks, which has been attributed to decreased capacity. However, recent research suggests that memory precision may also be an essential determinant of visual working memory (VWM) performance. Precision reflects the amount of memory resources assigned to individual items, and a larger amount of resources assigned to an item results in higher memory precision. At the neural level, low perceptual precision might arise from intrinsic noise in neural processing or fluctuations of cognitive factors. Atypical variability in both behavioral and neural responses has been observed in patients with other mental disorders, raising the possibility that schizophrenia might also have impaired memory precision rather than diminished memory capacity. However, it is unclear whether SZ and HC employ the same computational strategies in VWM, and most prior studies have only used one model, implicitly assuming it is the best one for both SZ and HC. In the present study, researchers systematically disentangle the impact of memory capacity and precision, as well as other factors, in SZ. They measured the performance of SZ and demographically matched HC in a standard VWM delayed-estimation task and evaluated several influential computational models in the basic research of VWM.Methods:The study involved 60 individuals with schizophrenia and 61 healthy controls, who were matched for age, sex, and education level. Participants completed a classical delay-estimation visual working memory task, in which they were asked to remember the duration of a visual stimulus and then estimate its duration after a delay. The researchers evaluated several influential computational models, including the model assuming fixed capacity, the model assuming variable capacity, the model assuming variable precision, and the model assuming a combination of fixed and variable capacity and precision. They also conducted several control experiments and analyses to exclude other confounding factors.Results:The results showed that the model assuming variable precision across items and trials was the best model to explain the performance of both groups. SZ participants exhibited abnormally larger variability of allocating memory resources, rather than resources or capacity per se. The findings were consistent across different visual features and subject cohorts. The study also demonstrated that the well-controlled tasks and thorough computational modeling shed new light on the mechanisms of VWM deficits associated with schizophrenia.Conclusion:The study provides an alternative view to the widely accepted decreased-capacity theory and highlights the importance of elevated resource allocation variability in generating atypical VWM behavior in schizophrenia. The findings also demonstrate the utility of Bayesian observer models in characterizing mechanisms of mental deficits in clinical neuroscience. Future studies could further investigate the neural mechanisms underlying the increased resource allocation variability in schizophrenia and explore potential interventions to improve working memory performance in this population.Keywords: working memory, schizophrenia, visual working memory, computational models, precision, capacity, resource allocation, Bayesian observer models.
A team of researchers have identified a new variant of the HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein (Env) that significantly increases viral infectivity when in the presence of HIV-positive plasma, but has reduced infectivity in the absence of plasma. This variant, which contains a change in the gp41 transmembrane glycoprotein, disrupts the formation of the gp41 six-helix bundle required for virus-cell membrane fusion. However, antibodies that bind to cluster I epitopes on gp41 can restore infectivity to wild-type levels. The researchers mapped this phenotype to a change in the amino acid residue Q563 to R in the gp41 heptad repeat 1 (HR1) region. This finding contributes to our understanding of gp41 residues involved in membrane fusion and identifies a mechanism by which host factors can alleviate a viral defect.The HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein, which mediates viral entry, consists of two subunits: the surface-exposed glycoprotein gp120 and the transmembrane subunit gp41. The gp120 subunit contains the receptor (CD4) and coreceptor (CCR5/CXCR4) binding sites, while the gp41 subunit is critical for virus-cell membrane fusion. Upon binding to the cell surface receptor and coreceptor, the fusion peptide in gp41 is inserted into the cell membrane, and the HR1 and HR2 regions rearrange to form the six-helix bundle, which is critical for creating the fusion pore to enable membrane fusion and efficient viral entry.The researchers identified a primary HIV-1 Env variant with impaired infectivity due to the Q563R change in the gp41 HR1 region. This change disrupts the formation of the gp41 six-helix bundle, which is necessary for membrane fusion. However, antibodies that bind to cluster I epitopes on gp41 can restore infectivity to wild-type levels. The researchers also found that this Q563R change increases HIV-1 sensitivity to broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNAbs) targeting the gp41 membrane-proximal external region (MPER).This study provides important insights into the role of gp41 residues in membrane fusion and identifies a mechanism by which host factors can alleviate a viral defect. Understanding the molecular mechanisms of HIV-1 entry and the role of host factors in viral infection is crucial for the development of effective HIV-1 therapies.Keywords: HIV-1, envelope glycoprotein, gp41, membrane fusion, six-helix bundle, gp120, CD4, coreceptor, CCR5, CXCR4, broadly neutralizing antibodies, MPER, amino acid residues, viral infectivity, antiviral factors.
The identification of consensus molecular subtypes of cancer is crucial for understanding the complex and discrepant results generated by extensive amounts of multi-omics data and various cancer subtyping methods. However, the lack of user-friendly analytical tools has posed a barrier for researchers. In this study, we present the development of the COnsensus Molecular SUbtype of Cancer (COMSUC) web server, which allows users to explore consensus molecular subtypes of over 30 cancers based on eight clustering methods, five types of omics data, and three consensus clustering methods. COMSUC is freely available at http://comsuc.bioinforai.tech/ (IP address: http://59.110.25.27/) and provides interactive and modifiable visualization, publishable output of analysis results, and the ability to exchange consensus subtype results with collaborators via project IDs. COMSUC is an intuitive and easy-to-use tool for researchers and clinicians to decipher cancer consensus molecular subtypes.
Ticks, specifically the seabird tick (Ixodes uriae), are widely distributed around the circumpolar regions of the northern and southern hemispheres. The unique geographic distribution of this tick species provides an opportunity to study the evolutionary patterns of viruses associated with it. Through meta-transcriptomic next-generation sequencing, 16 RNA viruses were identified in Ixodes uriae specimens collected from Antarctica and northern Sweden. Seven of these viruses were novel, and three of them, Ronne virus, Bonden virus, and Piguzov virus, were detected in both hemispheres, indicating at least two cross-circumpolar dispersal events. The absence of movement of the tick hosts between the same locations suggests that migratory birds are responsible for the movement of viruses at both local and global scales. This study provides important insights into the evolutionary history of both the tick host and the viruses it carries.Introduction:Ticks are a diverse and ecologically important group of ectoparasitic blood-feeding organisms, with the seabird tick (Ixodes uriae) being the only known tick species with a circumpolar distribution in both the northern and southern hemispheres. The unique geographic distribution of this tick species provides a rare opportunity to study the evolutionary patterns of viruses associated with it. By comparing the viromes of Ixodes uriae collected from seabirds in the northern hemisphere and around a penguin colony in the southern hemisphere, this study investigated whether there has been virus dispersal either within or between the northern and southern hemispheres.Background:Ticks are a diverse group of ectoparasitic organisms that are widely distributed around the world. Ixodes uriae is the only known tick species with a circumpolar distribution in both the northern and southern hemispheres. This tick species parasitizes a wide range of hosts, mainly seabirds, and has a long life cycle that can last up to seven years. Ixodes uriae is known to carry multiple different viruses and bacteria, including Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato, the agent of Lyme disease, and Gadgets Gully virus, among others. However, there is limited evidence for human disease associated with Ixodes uriae transmission.Methods:To investigate virus dispersal within and between the northern and southern hemispheres, Ixodes uriae specimens were collected from seabirds, specifically Common murres (Uria aalge) and Razorbills (Alca torda), in the northern hemisphere and from around a penguin (Pygoscelis papua) colony in the southern hemisphere. Meta-transcriptomic next-generation sequencing was used to identify RNA viruses in the tick samples.Results:Sixteen RNA viruses were identified, seven of which were novel. Three of these viruses, Ronne virus, Bonden virus, and Piguzov virus, were detected in both hemispheres, indicating at least two cross-circumpolar dispersal events. The absence of movement of the tick hosts between the same locations suggests that migratory birds are responsible for the movement of viruses at both local and global scales.Discussion:The results of this study provide important insights into the evolutionary history of both the tick host and the viruses it carries. The detection of the same or closely related viruses in geographically disjunct sampling locations provides evidence for virus dispersal within and between the circumpolar regions. The absence of movement of the tick hosts between the same locations further supports this hypothesis. These findings highlight the importance of considering the role of migratory birds in the dispersal of viruses and the need for continued research into the evolutionary dynamics of tick-borne viruses.Keywords:Ixodes uriae, seabird tick, circumpolar distribution, virus dispersal, next-generation sequencing, RNA viruses, migratory birds, evolutionary history, tick-borne viruses.
RecombineX is a new computational framework designed to automate the full workflow of marker identification, gamete genotyping, and tetrad-based recombination profiling for meiotic analysis. This tool is essential for understanding meiotic recombination, which is crucial for accurate chromosome segregation and parental allele shuffling. RecombineX is unique as it can analyze meiotic recombination landscapes in their native genomic contexts using parental genome assemblies, and it includes a dedicated module for simulating the genomes and reads of recombinant tetrads for fine-tuned hypothesis testing. RecombineX has been shown to be accurate and robust for both small and large genomes, and it can analyze tetrads with very low sequencing depths. The framework has demonstrated its power and accuracy through the analysis of tetrad sequencing data from Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. Interestingly, the reanalysis of budding yeast tetrad sequencing data with RecombineX and Oxford Nanopore sequencing revealed two unusual structural rearrangement events that were not noticed before, highlighting the occasional genome instability triggered by meiosis. RecombineX is a valuable tool for researchers studying meiotic recombination and its modulators at fine scales.
In the ongoing battle between viruses and their hosts, the human immune system has evolved various mechanisms to combat viral infections. One such mechanism involves the production of cytidine deaminase proteins, encoded by the APOBEC3 (A3) gene family. These proteins have potent antiviral and anti-retroelement activity. The A3 locus, which is unique to placental mammals, has undergone significant expansion through duplication, recombination, and deletion events, resulting in seven distinct A3 proteins in primates. Among these, A3G is the most potent against HIV-1. However, it is unclear if other double deaminase domain A3s have a generalized functional advantage against HIV-1.To test this hypothesis, researchers created synthetic double domains by linking single A3 domains in novel combinations. They found that these double domains, specifically A3C and A3H, acquired enhanced antiviral activity that is at least as potent, if not better than, A3G. This gain of antiviral potency is not solely due to cytidine deamination but also to an increase in RNA binding affinity. These findings demonstrate that novel combinations of A3 domains can gain potent antiviral activity, providing a new approach to developing effective antiviral strategies.Keywords: APOBEC3, cytidine deaminase, antiviral, HIV-1, double deaminase domains, synthetic double domains, antiviral activity, RNA binding affinity.
Cancer evolution is a complex process that involves the accumulation of genetic and epigenetic aberrations in tumors. Understanding the underlying evolutionary dynamics of cancer is crucial for forecasting tumor progression, developing adaptive therapies, and deconvoluting the genetic architecture driving adaptation. However, the lack of accessible data due to clinical constraints, such as the inability to perform serial sequencing, makes it challenging to study cancer evolution in vivo. Single time-point, bulk sequenced biopsies are the primary data source for precision genomics-guided treatment and cancer genomics research.Existing methods for inferring cancer evolution from variant allele frequencies (VAF) have limitations, such as being compressive, slow, or incorrectly specifying the underlying cancer evolutionary dynamics. In this study, we introduce TumE, a proof-of-principle synthetic supervised learning method that integrates simulated models of cancer evolution with Bayesian neural networks to infer ongoing selection in bulk-sequenced single tumor biopsies.TumE significantly improves both accuracy and inference time per sample when detecting positive selection, deconvoluting selected subclonal populations, and estimating subclone frequency. Moreover, TumE allows for transfer learning, which can leverage stored knowledge within TumE models for related evolutionary inference tasks, reducing data and computational time for further model development.This extensible framework provides a foundation for harnessing progressive computational methods for the benefit of cancer genomics and, ultimately, the cancer patient.Keywords: cancer, evolution, genetics, genomics, cancer genomics, deep learning, neural networks, transfer learning, single nucleotide variants, variant allele frequency, tumor evolution, subclonal populations, population genetics, approximate Bayesian inference, Monte Carlo dropout.
A study was conducted to investigate the diversity and distribution of trypanosomes, the parasites that cause African trypanosomiasis in humans and animals, in two active foci in Chad: Mandoul, where a tsetse control campaign is ongoing, and Maro, where the control had not started. The study collected 717 human and 540 cattle blood samples and caught 177 tsetse flies. Trypanosomal DNA was detected using PCR targeting internal transcribed spacer 1 (ITS1) and glycosomal glyceraldehyde-3 phosphate dehydrogenase (gGAPDH), followed by amplicon sequencing. Trypanosomal DNA was identified in 14 human samples, 227 cattle samples, and in tsetse. In Mandoul, an unknown Trypanosoma sp. -129-H was detected in a human with a history of a cured HAT infection and persisting symptoms. In Maro, besides the known pathogens T. congolense and T. gambiense, T. godfreyi, T. grayi, T. theileri, and T. simiae were detected in cattle and tsetse. Furthermore, evidence for additional unknown trypanosomes was obtained in tsetse from Maro. In contrast, in Mandoul, only T. theileri, T. simiae, and T. vivax DNA was identified in cattle. Genetic diversity was most prominent in T. vivax and T. theileri. The tsetse control activities in Mandoul reduced the tsetse population and thus the pathogenic parasites. However, T. theileri, T. vivax, and T. simiae are frequent in cattle, suggesting transmission by other insect vectors. In contrast, in Maro, transhumance to/from Central African Republic and no tsetse control may have led to the high diversity and frequency of trypanosomes observed, including HAT/AAT pathogenic species. The study highlights the importance of monitoring and control campaigns to reduce the risk of HAT and AAT infections and the necessity to investigate the infectivity of the unknown trypanosomes regarding their zoonotic potential. The study should be widened to other trypanosome hosts to capture the whole diversity of circulating trypanosomes.
Schistosoma haematobium and Schistosoma bovis are two closely related parasitic flatworms that can cause significant health issues in humans and animals. Hybridization between these two species, particularly in Africa, is a common occurrence and can lead to important public health and veterinary issues. In this study, researchers analyzed the genomic relationships between S. haematobium, S. bovis, and their hybrids using 19 isolates from a wide geographical range in Africa. The results showed that some S. haematobium populations have signatures of genomic introgression from S. bovis, with isolates from Corsica, Mali, and Egypt harboring the S. bovis-like Invadolysin gene. The findings suggest that introgression from S. bovis is widespread across S. haematobium and is unidirectional. The implications of these findings are significant for understanding the evolution of these parasites and the potential health risks associated with their hybridization.Introduction:Hybridization is a fascinating evolutionary phenomenon that raises the question of how species maintain their integrity. While hybridization can result in non-viable or non-fertile offspring, it can also lead to adaptive introgression, where genes and alleles from one species are maintained through subsequent generations and backcrosses, becoming part of the genomic background. Schistosomes are parasitic flatworms that can cause chronic and acute intestinal or urogenital schistosomiasis, posing serious public health and veterinary issues. Schistosoma spp. can interbreed, leading to hybrids that can have important implications for human and animal health. In this study, researchers investigated the genomic relationships between S. haematobium, S. bovis, and their hybrids using 19 isolates from a wide geographical range in Africa.Methods:The researchers conducted a whole genome sequencing approach and developed 56,181 SNPs to differentiate S. bovis isolates from a genomic cluster including all S. haematobium isolates and a natural S. haematobium-bovis hybrid. They analyzed the genomic data to identify possible traces of introgression events between S. haematobium and S. bovis.Results:The results showed that all isolates from the S. haematobium cluster except the isolate from Madagascar harbored signatures of genomic introgression from S. bovis. Isolates from Corsica, Mali, and Egypt harbored the S. bovis-like Invadolysin gene, an introgressed tract that has been previously detected in some introgressed S. haematobium populations. The findings suggest that introgression from S. bovis is widespread across S. haematobium and that the observed introgression is unidirectional.Conclusion:The results of this study highlight the importance of understanding the genomic relationships between S. haematobium, S. bovis, and their hybrids. The findings have implications for the evolution of these parasites and the potential health risks associated with their hybridization. Further research is needed to best characterize S. haematobium populations and unravel the genomic relationships between these species across all endemic countries.Keywords: Schistosoma, haematobium, bovis, hybridization, introgression, genetics, genomics, parasitic flatworms, public health, veterinary issues.
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) vaccines have yet to be successful in clinical trials, but secretory IgA (sIgA), a type of antibody found in mucosal tissues, is a promising candidate due to its abundance in these areas and its role in preventing infection. In this study, researchers used Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging and fluorescent microscopy to investigate how sIgA antibodies influence HIV interaction with mucosal barriers and viral penetration in colorectal tissue. The results showed that HIV virions rapidly disseminate throughout the colon two hours after exposure, and the presence of sIgA led to an increase in virions and penetration depth in the transverse colon. Additionally, virions were found in mesenteric lymph nodes two hours after viral exposure, and the presence of sIgA led to an increase in virions in these lymph nodes. These findings provide valuable insights into the early events of HIV infection and the role of sIgA in preventing infection. The combination of PET imaging and fluorescent microscopy enables in vivo and in situ visualization of antibody-virus interactions, potentially leading to the development of improved protective therapeutics and vaccines.
Iliski is a new open-source software designed to calculate Transfer Functions (TFs) between two signals, which can help researchers understand complex biological relationships without requiring a priori hypotheses about the shape of the TF. Iliski offers various pre-treatment routines and TF computation methods, including deconvolution, deterministic and non-deterministic optimization algorithms. The software was tested on data related to neurovascular coupling, the relationship between neuronal activity and local changes in blood flow, and the results demonstrate the benefits and limitations of the different TF computation methods. Iliski is available for free on GitHub and can be used on common operating systems, either within the MATLAB environment or as a standalone application. The software can be used in various fields beyond biology, making it a valuable tool for researchers in signal processing, engineering, and other disciplines.
Zika virus, a mosquito-borne disease, can cause Congenital Zika Syndrome (CZS) in infants if a mother contracts the virus before or during pregnancy. CZS can lead to various physical and developmental issues, including microcephaly, dysphagia, and an increased likelihood of choking. A qualitative evidence synthesis was conducted to understand the values and preferences of stakeholders, including pregnant women, mothers, family members, and health practitioners, regarding infant feeding in the presence of CZS and severe disability and nonprogressive, chronic encephalopathies. Six studies on CZS and eight studies on indirect evidence were included. Findings showed that breastfeeding was the preferred feeding method for all mothers, and difficulties in breastfeeding affected bonding and caused anxiety. Health professionals were often unable to offer appropriate advice, and training and maternal autonomy in feeding decisions were desired. Confidence in findings ranged from low to moderate. The evidence base has limitations, but the need for information, advice, and counselling, as well as substantial emotional support, was consistently reported. Parents perceived that these needs were often not recognized or satisfied, and optimal feeding and support strategies for infants with CZS or similar conditions have not been identified.
Two-component nanoparticles are a versatile platform for presenting viral antigens, particularly for HIV Env glycoproteins, to improve the induction and maturation of neutralizing antibody lineages. In this study, we describe the design, structural, and functional characterization of computationally designed tetrahedral, octahedral, and icosahedral nanoparticle immunogens displaying trimeric HIV Env glycoprotein ectodomains. The nanoparticles were engineered with SOSIP stabilizing mutations and presented twenty or four copies of the Env trimer. The findings indicate that tetrahedral nanoparticles can successfully present HIV Env trimers, but the optimal implementation for different immunization strategies remains to be determined. The nanoparticles possessed the intended structural and antigenic properties, as demonstrated by cryo-EM analysis. The immunogenicity of ConM-SOSIP trimers presented on a two-component tetrahedral nanoparticle or as soluble proteins was compared in rabbits, revealing similar serum antibody binding titers against the trimer component and slightly elevated neutralizing antibody titers for the nanoparticle immunogen. The results suggest that tetrahedral nanoparticles can be a valuable tool for HIV vaccine development, but further research is needed to determine the most effective implementation for various immunization strategies.
Pseudorabies virus (PRV) is a virus that can cause severe disease in various animals, including humans. To evade the host's immune response, PRV uses a protein called UL13 to inhibit the cGAS-STING axis, a crucial part of the host's antiviral response. UL13 interacts with the CDN domain of STING and recruits the E3 ligase RNF5 to promote K27-/K29-linked ubiquitination and degradation of STING. This results in a weakened host antiviral response and attenuated pathogenicity of PRV in mice. These findings suggest that PRV UL13 functions as an antagonist of IFN signaling by targeting STING stability, providing a new understanding of how PRV evades the host immune response.
 Arthropod-borne viruses, or arboviruses, are transmitted between hosts through the bites of infected mosquitoes and other arthropods. These viruses must be able to replicate across a wide range of temperatures, as mosquitoes and other arthropod vectors are subject to ambient temperatures that can fluctuate significantly. Temperature affects vector competence, the ability of a mosquito to acquire, maintain, and transmit a pathogen, and the extrinsic incubation period, the time between a mosquito's acquisition of an infection and its ability to transmit it to another host. The impact of temperature on arbovirus genetic diversity during mosquito infection is not well understood. In this study, we investigated how constant and fluctuating temperatures affect Zika virus (ZIKV) vector competence and population dynamics in Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus mosquitoes. We found that vector competence varied in a unimodal manner for constant temperatures, peaking between 28°C and 32°C for both Aedes species. However, fluctuating temperatures decreased vector competence. Using RNA-seq to characterize ZIKV population structure, we identified that temperature alters the selective environment in unexpected ways. Constant temperatures more often elicited positive selection, while fluctuating temperatures led to strong purifying selection in both Aedes species. These findings demonstrate that temperature has multiple impacts on ZIKV biology, including major effects on the selective environment within mosquitoes. Understanding the impact of temperature on arbovirus evolution is crucial for predicting virus spread and developing effective control strategies.
In the natural world, animals rely on their sense of smell to navigate their environment and survive. However, the process of how the nervous system integrates signals from multiple odorants present simultaneously to generate a coherent behavioral response is not well understood. In this study, we investigated the neural basis of olfactory integration in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans using a form of olfactory integration where a repulsive odorant blocks the attraction to other odorants. We found that the presence of the repulsive odorant 2-nonanone blocks the attraction to other odorants, such as isoamyl alcohol (IAA) or benzaldehyde, which signal food. Using a forward genetic screen, we identified genes, osm-5 and osm-1, that play a critical role in this integration process. Loss of these genes mildly reduces the response to the repellent 2-nonanone and disrupts the integration effect. Restoring the function of OSM-5 in either AWB or ASH, two sensory neurons known to mediate 2-nonanone-evoked avoidance, is sufficient to rescue. Sensory neurons AWB and downstream interneurons AVA, AIB, and RIM, which play critical roles in olfactory sensorimotor response, are able to process signals generated by 2-nonanone or IAA or the mixture of the two odorants and contribute to the integration. Our results identify redundant neural circuits that regulate the robust effect of a repulsive odorant to block responses to attractive odorants and uncover the neuronal and cellular basis for this complex olfactory task.Introduction:Odorants play a crucial role in regulating behaviors that are essential for survival. While most studies have focused on the detection and processing of individual odorants, it is important to understand how the nervous system processes complex odorant information in natural environments where attractive and repulsive cues coexist. Previous studies have shown that the presence of two odorants can evoke a response that is different from the simple addition of the responses to the individual odorants, suggesting complex olfactory processes. In this study, we used the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans to characterize the molecular and neuronal basis of olfactory integration. C. elegans responds to a large number of attractive or repulsive odorants, and several pairs of sensory neurons detect these odorants using GPCRs and downstream cGMP-mediated signaling pathways. Among well-studied odorant cues, we chose 2-nonanone and isoamyl alcohol (IAA) to investigate the integration of repulsive and attractive odorants. 2-nonanone is a strong repellent that is sensed by olfactory sensory neurons AWB and ASH, while IAA is a strong attractant that is mainly detected by AWC sensory neurons. In our behavior paradigm, we stimulated worms with an attractive odorant and a repulsive odorant simultaneously to investigate the integrated response. We found that while IAA alone strongly attracts the worms and 2-nonanone alone strongly repels them, IAA present with 2-nonanone at several high concentrations repels the worms as much as 2-nonanone alone, and the attractive effect of IAA is completely blocked by 2-nonanone. By screening for mutants generated by random mutagenesis, we identified three genes, osm-5, osm-1, and dyf-7, which led us to uncover the circuit mechanisms underlying the integrated response to the repulsive and the attractive odorants.Keywords: olfactory integration, Caenorhabditis elegans, sensory neurons, neural circuits, odorant detection, GPCRs, cGMP signaling, behavioral response, attractive odorants, repulsive odorants.
Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are tiny protein-loaded particles released by various organisms, including parasites, and have the potential to manipulate the immune system, making them promising candidates for next-generation vaccines. Schistosoma mansoni, the parasite that causes schistosomiasis, produces EVs carrying proteins with promising immunizing potential. In this study, researchers isolated S. mansoni egg-derived EVs using a progressive sequential cooling ultra-centrifugation technique and evaluated their protective efficacy against murine schistosomiasis. The results showed that immunization with EVs led to a significant reduction in tegumentally deranged adult worms, as well as a decrease in hepatic and intestinal egg counts. This was accompanied by a remarkable amelioration of hepatic granulomata, which was mediated by high interferon gamma (IFN-γ) and antibody levels. Western immunoblot analysis revealed that the antibodies produced in vaccinated mice recognized two protein bands of approximately 14 kDa and 21 kDa, confirming that EVs are able to stimulate a specific antibody response. These findings suggest that S. mansoni egg-derived EVs have the potential to serve as a vaccine candidate against murine schistosomiasis.Introduction:Schistosomiasis, caused by the parasite Schistosoma mansoni, is a major public health concern, infecting over 230 million people and causing approximately 280,000 deaths per year. The disease is characterized by the presence of adult worms in the liver and intestine, which cause extensive tissue damage and trigger a strong immune response. Current treatments, such as praziquantel, are limited in their effectiveness and face the challenge of re-infections. Vaccines, in combination with chemotherapy, are considered the best strategy for long-term control of schistosomiasis. While some vaccine candidates have reached clinical trials, the search for effective vaccines against schistosomiasis continues. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are membrane-bound particles released by both eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells, and have promising therapeutic, diagnostic, and immunizing applications. They carry bioactive macromolecules and immunogenic moieties that can change the biological properties of target cells. In this study, researchers evaluated the potential of S. mansoni egg-derived EVs as a vaccine candidate against murine schistosomiasis.Keywords: Schistosoma mansoni, vaccines, extracellular vesicles, immunology, parasitology, interferon gamma, antibodies, protein, immunization, murine schistosomiasis.
 Mycetoma, a chronic, inflammatory, subcutaneous infectious disease, is considered a neglected tropical disease with limited data on its burden and complications in Uganda. A retrospective review of biopsy reports and literature revealed 279 cases of mycetoma in Uganda over a 70-year period, with an average incidence of 0.32/100,000 persons and a prevalence of 8.32/100,000 persons per decade. Males aged 21-30 years were the most affected, and the foot was the most commonly affected body part. Fungi were the most common causative agents, and ten percent of cases had bone involvement, with 58% of these cases requiring amputation. Despite the significant health problem, the index of clinical suspicion for mycetoma is low due to its painless nature in the early stages and the presence of a large differential diagnosis. More systematic studies are needed to define the true burden of mycetoma in Uganda.
Malaysia has successfully eliminated human malaria transmission but simian malaria, caused by parasites like Plasmodium knowlesi, P. cynomolgi, P. inui, and P. cynomolgi, remains a concern. This study aimed to collect and analyze data on simian malaria epidemiology among macaques in Malaysia over the last 20 years. Seven studies were identified, with most conducted in Peninsular Malaysia and all reporting positive detection of Plasmodium parasites in macaques. The most prevalent species was P. inui (49.27%) and the least was P. fieldi (4.76%). Prevalence was higher in East Malaysia than Peninsular Malaysia. Monoinfection, dual, and triple infections were common. Macaques are the reservoir of simian plasmodium in Malaysia, and understanding their epidemiology is crucial for public health management to prevent transmission to humans. The findings of this study can inform prevention measures and contribute to the understanding of parasite evolution.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a human tumor virus that is strongly associated with several malignancies, including B-cell lymphomas and epithelial tumors. EBNA1, a key antigen expressed in all EBV-associated tumors during latency, is required for maintenance of the EBV episome DNA and the regulation of viral gene transcription. The mechanism by which EBV maintains latent infection at the level of posttranslational regulation is largely unknown. In this study, researchers report that EBNA1 contains two SUMO-interacting motifs (SIM2 and SIM3) and that mutation of SIM2 disrupts EBNA1 dimerization, while SIM3 contributes to the polySUMO2 modification of EBNA1 at lysine 477 in vitro. Proteomic and immunoprecipitation analyses further reveal that the SIM3 motif is required for the EBNA1-mediated inhibitory effects on SUMO2-modified STUB1, SUMO2-mediated degradation of USP7, and SUMO1-modified KAP1. Deletion of the EBNASIM motif leads to functional loss of both EBNA1-mediated viral episome maintenance and lytic gene silencing. Importantly, hypoxic stress induces the SUMO2 modification of EBNA1, which in turn leads to the dissociation of EBNA1 with STUB1, KAP1, and USP7 to increase the SUMO1 modification of both STUB1 and KAP1 for reactivation of lytic replication. The EBNA1SIM motif plays an essential role in EBV latency and is a potential therapeutic target against EBV-associated cancers.
A recent study identified a significant Quantitative Trait Locus (QTL) on chromosome arm 7AL of wheat that affects spikelet number per spike (SNS), grain number per spike, and grain yield. The leading candidate gene for this QTL was identified as WHEAT ORTHOLOG OF APO1 (WAPO-A1), which is the A-genome homeolog of the rice gene ABERRANT PANICLE ORGANIZATION1 (APO1). The study used mutants and transgenic plants to demonstrate that WAPO-A1 is the causal gene for this QTL. Loss-of-function mutants of WAPO-A1 and WAPO-B1 (the B-genome homolog) showed reduced SNS in tetraploid wheat, and the effect was exacerbated when both mutations were combined. Transgenic wheat plants carrying extra copies of WAPO-A1 driven by its native promoter had higher SNS, a more compact spike apical region, and a smaller terminal spikelet than the wild type. The results suggest that WAPO1 affects SNS by regulating the timing of terminal spikelet formation. The study also found that both transgenic and wapo1 mutant plants showed a wide range of floral abnormalities, indicating additional roles of WAPO1 on wheat floral development. The study identified three widespread haplotypes in the QTL region, each associated with particular WAPO-A1 alleles. The WAPO-A1 allele in the H1 haplotype, which is expressed at significantly lower levels in the developing spikes than the alleles in the H2 and H3 haplotypes, is associated with reduced SNS. The H2 haplotype, which is already present in most modern common wheat varieties but rare in durum wheat, is associated with the strongest effects in increasing SNS and grain number per spike. The findings of this study could contribute to the development of more productive wheat varieties by improving our understanding of the genes regulating grain yield.Keywords: wheat, grain yield, genetics, gene regulation, plant science, genetic mapping, QTL, chromosome 7AL, WAPO-A1, APO1, F-box protein, ubiquitin ligase, SCF complex, LEAFY transcription factor, floral development, haplotypes, common wheat, durum wheat.
Scrub typhus is a zoonotic disease caused by bacteria of the genus Orientia, transmitted by mites called chiggers. It is primarily found in the Asia-Pacific region, but recent cases have been reported in Chile. The aim of this study was to investigate the presence and prevalence of chiggers on different rodent species in probable sites for scrub typhus transmission on Chiloé Island in southern Chile, and to molecularly examine collected chiggers for the presence of Orientia DNA. During the austral summer of 2018, rodents were trapped in six sites and examined for chigger infestation. All study sites were rural areas on Chiloé Island, previously identified as probable localities where human cases acquired the disease. Of the 244 rodents captured, the most abundant was Abrothrix olivacea, and chiggers were detected on all seven rodent species with a 55% prevalence rate. Chiggers showed low host specificity and varied according to site specific host abundance. Three genera of trombiculids were identified, with Herpetacarus being the most abundant (93%). Infestation rates showed site-specific differences, and molecular analyses proved that 15.8% of mite pools were positive for Orientia species, all belonging to the genus Herpetacarus. This study is the first to report the presence of different rodent-associated chigger mites positive for Orientia sp. in a region endemic for scrub typhus in southern Chile. The findings suggest that chigger mites serve as vectors and reservoirs of this emerging zoonosis in South America.
 During the 2015-2017 Zika epidemic, dengue and chikungunya, two other viruses transmitted by the same mosquito vector as Zika, were also circulating. The clinical presentation of these diseases can be similar, making it challenging to differentially diagnose them. To estimate the potential extent of misdiagnosis during this epidemic, we applied principles of probability and empirical estimates of diagnostic sensitivity and specificity to weekly reported case data from 43 countries in Latin America and the Caribbean. Our analysis suggested that there were 944-996 Zika cases when assuming all confirmed cases were diagnosed using molecular methods, compared to 400-821,800 cases when assuming all confirmed cases were diagnosed using serological methods. Misdiagnosis was more common in countries with a higher proportion of reported dengue and chikungunya cases, such as Brazil. Our methodology could help enhance the interpretation of passive surveillance data for these diseases in the future and potentially be used for other co-circulating diseases with similar symptoms.
Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) is a DNA virus that replicates its genome through reverse transcription of a pregenomic (pg) RNA intermediate in hepatocytes. HBV RNA has been detected in virus-like particles in chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patient serum and has been used as a biomarker for intrahepatic cccDNA activity. However, the biogenesis and molecular characteristics of serum HBV RNA are not well understood. In this study, researchers found that the encapsidated serum HBV RNA predominantly consists of pgRNA, which are detergent- and ribonuclease-resistant. They also demonstrated that the cell culture supernatant contains a large amount of pgRNA-containing nonenveloped capsids and a minor population of pgRNA-containing virions. The formation of pgRNA-virions requires both capsid assembly and viral envelope proteins, which can be inhibited by capsid assembly modulators and an envelope-knockout mutant, respectively. Furthermore, the pgRNA-virions utilize the multivesicular body pathway for egress. Northern blotting, RT-PCR, and 3’ RACE assays revealed that serum/supernatant HBV pgRNA are mainly spliced and devoid of the 3’-terminal sequences. pgRNA-virion collected from cells treated with a reversible HBV priming inhibitor L-FMAU was unable to establish infection in HepG2-NTCP cells. In summary, serum HBV RNA is secreted in noninfectious virion-like particle as spliced and poly(A)-free pgRNA. This study sheds light on the molecular biology of serum HBV RNA in the HBV life cycle and aids the development of serum HBV RNA as a novel biomarker for CHB diagnosis and treatment prognosis.
 Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the bacterium that causes tuberculosis, encounters a challenging environment within the host and relies on multiple DNA repair enzymes to maintain its genomic integrity. The bacterium's GC-rich genome makes it susceptible to cytosine deaminations, leading to the occurrence of uracils in the DNA. Uracil DNA glycosylases Ung and UdgB initiate the repair process, and their deletion in a double knockout (RvΔdKO) strain led to a higher spontaneous mutation rate and increased survival in guinea pigs. Whole-genome sequence analysis revealed a large number of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in RvΔdKO. Competition assays showed that RvΔdKO outcompeted the wild-type strain in both ex vivo and in vivo conditions. The compromised DNA repair in RvΔdKO may lead to the accumulation of mutations, some of which drive adaptation to the host environment. This property makes RvΔdKO a valuable tool for identifying drug targets.
In the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the biological master clock of rats and mice, there are approximately 10,000 heterogeneous clock cells, yet the SCN maintains a high degree of circadian phase coherence. This coherence is essential for various circadian rhythmic activities and is believed to be achieved through multiple cell-to-cell coupling mechanisms, one of which is action potential (AP)-mediated connectivity. However, due to technical limitations, little is known about the morphology of the connectivity at a cellular scale. In this study, researchers explored a large pool of network morphologies to identify plausible features of SCN networks. They selected networks based on the experimentally obtained 'indegree distribution' and 'physical range distribution of afferent clock cells.' The successful networks had several common features, including a positive correlation between 'indegree' and 'outdegree,' a larger total degree for cells in the SCN ventrolateral region (core) than the dorsal medial region (shell), a much larger number of intra-core edges than intra-shell edges, and a distance probability density function for afferent connections that fits well to a beta function. These findings could be useful for future explorations of the AP-mediated clock cell connectome within the SCN.
The left-ventral occipito-temporal cortex (lvOT) plays a crucial role in reading by optimizing linguistic processing. The Lexical Categorization Model (LCM) is a proposed framework that explains how lvOT achieves this function. According to the LCM, lvOT allows for fast meaning access when words are familiar and filters out non-meaningful orthographic strings. The LCM successfully simulates results from functional brain imaging studies and predicts lvOT activation more accurately than alternative models in three functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies. The LCM assumes that word recognition in the ventral visual stream involves word-likeness extraction followed by lexical categorization before accessing word meaning. The model's simulations demonstrate that word-likeness, a measure of how closely a word resembles other words in its orthographic neighborhood, is represented posteriorly to lvOT, while the dichotomous word/non-word output of the LCM can be localized to downstream frontal brain regions. The training of the lexical categorization process results in more efficient reading. In summary, the LCM provides a quantitatively explicit and testable framework for understanding the functional role of the lvOT during reading.
Circadian rhythms play a significant role in the immune system, and disruptions to these rhythms have been linked to inflammatory pathologies. Shift work, which disrupts the natural light-dark cycle, can cause serious health problems, including weakened immune function. In this study, researchers used a mathematical model to understand the mechanisms behind the weakened immune system in shift workers. They created a model of the mammalian pulmonary circadian clock coupled with an acute inflammation model in male and female rats. The model simulated shift work by advancing the circadian system by 8 hours, with sex-specific modifications to clock genes. The results showed that under normal conditions, the host is more sensitive to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) at certain circadian times due to dynamic changes in Interleukin 10 (IL-10), an anti-inflammatory cytokine. The model identified REV-ERB as a key modulator of IL-10 activity throughout the circadian day. The model also predicted that males and females exhibit an exaggerated response to LPS at certain circadian times, which is countered by a blunted immune response at others. Overall, females produce fewer pro-inflammatory cytokines than males, but the severity of the response varies across the circadian day. This model can help explain how shift work-mediated circadian disruptions affect the immune system and other physiological responses.Keywords: circadian rhythms, immune system, inflammation, mathematical modeling, clock genes, IL-10, REV-ERB, shift work, sex-specific responses.
Dengue fever, a mosquito-borne tropical disease, poses a significant risk to Saudi Arabia due to its endemic status in the western region and the large number of visitors during Hajj and Umrah. This study aimed to estimate the economic burden of dengue fever in Saudi Arabia during the years 2013-2017. The study used a statistically validated predictive model to estimate direct costs, which included care-related expenditures, and indirect costs, which were based on productivity loss. The results showed that the highest estimated costs were in 2016, with a total of over US$168.5 million, including US$29 million in direct costs and US$139.5 million in indirect costs. The total cost of illness for the five-year period was US$551 million for 15,369 patients, resulting in an average cost of US$11,947.6 per patient. Productivity loss costs accounted for 63.3% to 83.8% of the estimated total costs. The economic burden of dengue fever in Saudi Arabia is substantial, with an estimated annual cost of US$110.2 million. The findings highlight the urgent need for an effective national prevention strategy to reduce morbidity and save costs.
Nuclear lipid droplets, which store fat in the nucleus, have been discovered in various cells and tissues, including in human patients with fatty liver disease. The function of nuclear lipid droplets is not well understood, and it is unclear whether they are beneficial or detrimental. In this study, researchers investigated the presence and potential impact of nuclear lipid droplets in Caenorhabditis elegans intestinal cells and germ cells. They found that nuclear lipid droplets occur normally in intestinal cells and germ cells but are associated with damage only in the intestine. In intestinal nuclei, nuclear lipid droplets are associated with novel bundles of microfilaments and membrane tubules, which might have roles in damage repair. The researchers used a forward genetic screen to isolate mutants with abnormally large or abundant nuclear lipid droplets, and identified three such mutants that encode the lipid regulator SEIP-1/seipin, the inner nuclear membrane protein NEMP-1/Nemp1/TMEM194A, and a component of COPI vesicles called COPA-1/α-COP. The nuclear lipid droplet phenotype of copa-1 mutants results from a defect in retrieving mislocalized membrane proteins that normally reside in the endoplasmic reticulum. The seip-1 mutant causes most germ cells to have nuclear lipid droplets, the largest of which occupy more than a third of the nuclear volume. However, the nuclear lipid droplets do not trigger apoptosis, and the germ cells differentiate into viable, healthy progeny. These results suggest that nuclear lipid droplets are detrimental to intestinal nuclei but have no obvious deleterious effect on germ nuclei.Keywords: nuclear lipid droplets, C. elegans, intestinal cells, germ cells, lipid regulation, COPI, seipin, NEMP-1, TMEM194A, COPA-1, α-COP, inner nuclear membrane, lipid droplet phenotype, membrane proteins, endoplasmic reticulum, lipid storage, fatty liver disease.
Streptococcus pneumoniae, or pneumococcus, is a leading cause of bacterial meningitis and can result in neurological sequelae in survivors. The mechanisms behind pneumococcal interactions with neurons and subsequent neuronal damage are not well understood. In this study, we investigated the role of the pneumococcal proteins RrgA and pneumolysin (Ply) in neuronal interactions and damage. Using human primary neurons, we found that pneumococci interact with the cytoskeleton protein β-actin through RrgA and Ply, leading to adhesion, invasion, and neuronal death. Ply interacts with the neuronal plasma membrane through its cholesterol-binding domain 4, increasing the exposure of β-actin filaments and providing more binding sites for RrgA. Pneumococcal infection causes neuronal death through increased intracellular calcium levels and actin cytoskeleton disassembly. STED super-resolution microscopy revealed disrupted β-actin filaments in neurons infected with pneumococci expressing RrgA and Ply. Neuronal death caused by pneumococcal infection was inhibited using anti-β-actin antibodies. These findings provide insight into the mechanisms behind pneumococcal interactions with neurons and potential explanations for the neurological sequelae observed in survivors.Introduction:Streptococcus pneumoniae, or pneumococcus, is the leading cause of bacterial meningitis worldwide. Despite access to antibiotics and intensive care, the mortality rate in pneumococcal meningitis remains high, and around 50% of survivors suffer from permanent neurological damages. Little is known about the mechanisms for how pneumococci interact with and damage neurons. Pneumococcal infections typically begin with colonization of the upper respiratory tract, and bacteria may bypass the blood-brain barrier (BBB) endothelium to cause meningitis. The RrgA protein of the pneumococcal pilus-1 interacts with endothelial receptors pIgR and PECAM-1, promoting pneumococcal spread through the BBB and infection of the brain. The cytotoxin of pneumococci, pneumolysin (Ply), has also been shown to affect the brain. However, the mechanisms behind pneumococcal interactions with the actin cytoskeleton are not well understood. In eukaryotic cells, the actin skeleton is essential for cellular development, metabolism, and immunity, and β-actin is a predominant isoform among the actin cytoskeleton proteins. In neurons, one of the main functions of actin filaments is the transport of microtubules along axons, which is fundamental for neuronal development. Some bacterial pathogens, such as Shigella and enteropathogenic Escherichia coli, have been shown to exploit cytoskeletal proteins in eukaryotic cells to activate host-mediated uptake. However, little is known about pneumococcal interactions with the actin cyto skeleton. It has been demonstrated that Ply has direct transmembrane interactions with actin within the lipid bilayer of the plasma membrane of astrocytes. In this study, we investigated pneumococcal interactions with neurons. We found that the pilus-1 adhesin RrgA can bind to neurons, and that the presence of RrgA and the cytotoxin Ply promotes pneumococcal entry into neurons. We also found that purified proteins or the presence of RrgA and Ply in pneumococcal strains cause neuronal death, and that both proteins interact with β-actin of the neuronal cytoskeleton and induce Ca2+ release, potentially damaging the cytoskeleton and the cells. We further found that disruption of β-actin filaments in neurons infected with pneumococci expressing RrgA and Ply was observed using STED super-resolution microscopy. Neuronal death caused by pneumococcal infection was inhibited using anti-β-actin antibodies.Keywords:imaging techniques, cell membranes, cell processes, research and analysis methods, developmental biology, staining, cellular types, cell biology, cell death, cellular neuroscience,
In the world of animal behavior, conspecific males engage in fights for resources such as food and mating opportunities. However, the physiological mechanisms controlling this behavior remain unknown. In this study, we investigated the behavioral and brain-transcriptomic changes during the fight between two Betta splendens, a popular model organism for studying aggression. At the behavioral level, we observed that surface-breathing and biting/striking only occurred during intervals between mouth-locking, and eventually, the behaviors of the two opponents became synchronized. At the physiological level, we analyzed the expression patterns of 23,306 brain transcripts using RNA-sequencing data from brains of fighting pairs after a 20-minute (D20) and a 60-minute (D60) fight. The two opponents in each D60 fighting pair showed a strong gene expression correlation, whereas those in D20 fighting pairs showed a weak correlation. Moreover, each fighting pair in the D60 group showed pair-specific gene expression patterns in a grade of membership analysis (GoM) and were grouped as a pair in the heatmap clustering. The observed pair-specific individualization in brain-transcriptomic synchronization (PIBS) suggested that this synchronization provides a physiological basis for the behavioral synchronization. An analysis using the synchronized genes in fighting pairs of the D60 group found genes enriched for ion transport, synaptic function, and learning and memory. Brain-transcriptomic synchronization could be a general phenomenon and may provide a new cornerstone with which to investigate coordinating and sustaining social interactions between two interacting partners of vertebrates.Introduction:Animal contests are a fundamental driver of natural selection, as they result in an unequal division of resources. Conspecific animals fight for resources such as food and mating opportunities, but they usually stop fighting after assessing their relative fighting abilities to avoid serious injuries. The contest outcomes have been commonly explained by the mutual assessment model, which assumes that animals assess each other's abilities during the fight and stop fighting once they determine the outcome. However, how such mutual assessments are carried out at the molecular level during fighting remains unknown. Aggression is ubiquitous in animals because it may increase an individual's chance to survive and to transmit its genes to the next generation. Betta splendens, a fighting fish, is a well-known model organism for studying aggression due to its long fighting duration and stereotypical social displays. In their natural habitats, males fiercely protect their territories and build bubble nests to hold fertilized eggs. In the laboratory, a male aggressively attacks any intruder or its own mirror image to maintain its territory. Previous studies on B. splendens and other fish have focused on aggressive displays between males, but they usually described only one particular behavior or compared global differences in aggressiveness between the loser and the winner. More recently, physiological and neurological studies have been conducted to examine aggressive behaviors using B. splendens in combination with pharmacological treatments, and some important signaling molecules linked to aggression have been discovered, such as serotonin (5-HT), dopamine, and GABA. Additionally, a suite of genes linked to aggressiveness has been identified in different fish such as cichlid fish, zebrafish, and rainbow trout. However, these analyses focused on differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the brains of the eventual winner and loser, revealing only the differences in the brain-transcriptomic state between them without comparing the brain-transcriptomic responses of the two opponents in a fighting pair during a fight.Two major obstacles to studying brain-transcriptomic responses during fighting are the large number of genes known to influence aggression in animals and the lack of a reference genome for this fish, which was only recently released. Behavioral and physiological synchronization have long been studied given its importance in reproductive/mating behavior, cooperative behavior, and aggressive behavior. Crucial signaling molecules such as 5-HT and arginine-vasotocin (AVT) modulate the levels of such cooperation at the physiological level in fish. Furthermore, recent studies have provided physiological evidence for such synchronization at the neuronal level between two interacting bats or mice. Given the clear behavioral evidence and recent physiological findings, we hypothesized that synchronization at the gene expression level between two interacting partners, especially in brain genes associated with synaptic function, ion transport, and aggression, might also occur. We specifically asked the following questions: 1) what is the relationship between brain-transcript
A new strain of the Omono River virus (OmRV), a mosquito-specific virus, has been identified and its high-resolution structures have been determined using single-particle cryo-electron microscopy. This virus, which is a member of the Totiviridae family, is known to infect fungi and protozoans but has an unexpected feature: a protrusion at the five-fold vertex of the capsid. The structures suggest that disassociation of the protrusion could lead to conformational changes in the major capsid, and these findings suggest that the protrusions may be involved in the extracellular transmission of OmRV. The Totiviridae family, which includes OmRV, typically infects fungi or protozoans and lacks an extracellular life cycle stage. However, some "totivirus-like" viruses, including OmRV and Armigeres subalbatus totivirus (AsTV), have been found to be capable of extracellular transmission. The structures of OmRV-LZ, a newly isolated strain of OmRV, reveal unexpected pentamer protrusions and suggest that the protrusion is composed of a small protein cleaved from the polypeptide precursor encoded by ORF1. The implications of these findings for the poorly understood extracellular transmission pathways of totivirus-like viruses are significant.
A protein called mTOR plays a crucial role in various cellular processes, existing in two distinct complexes, mTORC1 and mTORC2. While much is known about mTORC1, the mechanisms regulating mTORC2 remain unclear. In this study, researchers discovered that mice with a hypomorphic mutation of the Ric-8B gene, which acts as a non-canonical GEF for heterotrimeric Gαs/olf type subunits, exhibit reduced mTORC2 activity. Ric-8B mutant embryos were smaller than their wild-type littermates, failed to close the neural tube in the cephalic region, and died during mid-embryogenesis. Comparative transcriptome analysis revealed that signaling pathways involving GPCRs and G proteins were dysregulated in the Ric-8B mutant embryos, and unexpectedly, the mTOR signaling pathway was also impaired. Specifically, phosphorylation of Akt at Ser473 was decreased in the Ric-8B mutant embryos, indicating reduced mTORC2 activity. Knockdown of the endogenous Ric-8B gene in cultured cell lines further supported the involvement of Ric-8B in mTORC2 activity. These findings provide new insights into the regulation of mTORC2 and its role in development.Introduction:Ric-8B is a highly conserved protein that interacts with Gαs and Gαolf, the subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins. It acts as a GEF for both Gαs and Gαolf, amplifying odorant receptor and dopamine receptor signaling through Gαolf in cultured cells. Ric-8B is predominantly expressed in the same tissues where Gαolf is expressed, suggesting they are functional partners in vivo. Ric-8B also regulates Gα protein abundance and may serve as a chaperone that promotes G protein stability and the formation of functional G protein complexes. In addition to the full-length Ric-8B, an alternatively spliced version, Ric-8BΔ9, is also highly expressed in the olfactory epithelium. Unlike full-length Ric-8B, Ric-8BΔ9 does not bind to Gαs and does not show GEF activity. It can, however, bind Gβ1γ2 and may play a role in Gβγ signaling. While Ric-8B knockout mice are not viable and die early during embryogenesis, a gene trapped allele of Ric-8B that shows reduced levels of Ric-8B expression was used in this study to investigate its physiological roles during development. The Ric-8B mutant embryos were smaller, failed to close the neural tube at the cephalic region, and died around E10.5. Ric-8B gene expression is predominant in the nervous system, specifically in the neural folds in the cephalic region and the ventral region of the neural tube. Increased apoptosis is observed in the region of the neural tube defects in the Ric-8B mutant embryos. Comparative transcriptome analysis unexpectedly revealed that mTOR signaling is impaired in the Ric-8B mutant embryos. mTOR is a serine/threonine protein kinase that acts as the catalytic core of two distinct complexes: mTORC1 and mTORC2. mTORC1 mainly controls cell growth and metabolism, promotes protein synthesis, and is the best-characterized complex to date. mTORC2, on the other hand, has been implicated in the regulation of cytoskeletal organization, cell survival, and cell migration. Both complexes, mTORC1 and mTORC2, have been linked to the control of protein synthesis, although the role of mTORC2 is not as clearly defined as that of mTORC1. The present study found that mTORC2 activity, but not mTORC1 activity, is downregulated in the mutant embryo. Similar effects were observed in HEK293T and HepG2 cells which were knocked down for Ric-8B. Overall, these results show that Ric-8B is essential for embryogenesis and that depletion of Ric-8B reduces mTORC2 activity.
Dengue fever, a common vector-borne disease, is challenging to predict due to its large variations in epidemic size across seasons. To address this challenge, a new ensemble forecast system is proposed to generate real-time forecasts of dengue fever spread dynamics. The system is based on a susceptible-infected-recovered (SIR) type of compartmental model, coupled with a data assimilation method called the ensemble adjusted Kalman filter (EAKF). The model is informed by meteorological and mosquito density information to depict the transmission of dengue virus among human and mosquito populations, and generates predictions. The effective population size parameter is introduced to adjust the predicted outbreak scale, which is updated using the most recent observations and historical records. The proposed forecast model accurately projects peak timing, peak intensity, and total incidence of dengue fever outbreaks in Guangzhou, China during the 2011-2017 seasons, outperforming a generalized additive model approach. The ensemble forecast system can be operated in real-time and inform control planning to reduce the burden of dengue fever.Dengue fever is a significant health problem, with over 390 million people infected annually, and Guangdong province in China being one of the most prevalent areas. The intensity of dengue fever outbreaks varies remarkably among different seasons, and accurate forecasts remain difficult due to the large number of zeros in the time series data and the dramatic variations in outbreak size. Existing forecast methods for infectious diseases include statistical approaches, state-space estimation methods, and deep learning algorithms. Model-inference systems, which couple dynamic models with data assimilation algorithms, have been developed and used to generate accurate ensemble forecasts for infectious diseases.The proposed SIR-EAKF system simulates the transmission of dengue virus between mosquitoes and humans, using the SIR model and the EAKF for data assimilation. The effective population size is sequentially updated to adjust the predicted outbreak scale, which is embedded in each data assimilation step. The system was validated using retrospective forecasts of dengue outbreaks in Guangzhou during the 2011-2012 to 2017-2018 seasons, and the results showed accurate projections of peak timing, peak intensity, and total incidence. The ensemble forecast system can be operated in real-time and inform control planning to reduce the burden of dengue fever.Keywords: dengue fever, susceptible-infected-recovered model, ensemble adjusted Kalman filter, real-time forecasts, meteorological and mosquito density data, effective population size, Guangzhou, China.
A study was conducted to develop and pilot an intervention to strengthen the resilience of individuals and families affected by leprosy against discrimination. Leprosy, a chronic infectious disease, can lead to stigma and discrimination, negatively impacting the psychosocial wellbeing of those affected and their family members. The study used a quasi-experimental design with a mixed methods approach and included 80 participants from two sites in India. Participants completed the Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale and WHOQOL-BREF questionnaires pre- and post-intervention, and semi-structured interviews were conducted post-intervention. The 10-week family-based intervention aimed to enhance protective abilities and capacity to overcome adversity. Results showed significant improvements in resilience scores for persons and family members in the Odisha state, which were maintained at six-month follow-up. No improvement was observed in the Telangana state. WHOQOL-BREF scores were higher for persons affected in both states and family members in Odisha. All participants reported benefits from the program. The study suggests that the intervention has the potential to improve resilience and quality of life, but a large-scale efficacy trial is needed to determine its effectiveness and long-term sustainability.Introduction:Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae, which can damage peripheral nerves and skin, leading to impairment and stigma. Social stigma can negatively impact the emotions, thoughts, behavior, and relationships of those affected, and their family members. Resilience, the ability to adapt to adversity, is crucial for overcoming stigma and discrimination. Evidence-based approaches to building resilience within families have been described, but most are resource-intensive and not designed for neglected tropical disease services like leprosy programs. The current study aimed to develop and pilot an intervention to strengthen individual and family resilience against leprosy-related discrimination. The study was based on a scoping review and qualitative exploration of sources of strength and resilience.
In the process of cell division, it is crucial that sister chromatids are correctly attached to the mitotic spindle for proper chromosome segregation. In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the protein Shugoshin (Sgo1) plays a key role in ensuring biorientation of sister chromatids by recruiting the protein phosphatase PP2A-Rts1 and the condensin complex to centromeres. Researchers have identified a specific region within Sgo1, called the Serine-Rich Motif (SRM), that mediates the interaction with condensin and is essential for its recruitment to centromeres. They found that this interaction is regulated through phosphorylation within the SRM, and identified the phosphorylation sites using mass spectrometry. The findings suggest that the Mps1 kinase directly phosphorylates Sgo1 within the SRM to regulate the interaction with condensin and thereby condensin localization to centromeres. This discovery provides new insights into the mechanisms controlling shugoshin activity at the centromere in budding yeast.
A comprehensive evaluation of T cell epitope prediction tools, which are used for vaccine design, cancer neoantigen identification, and other applications, was conducted using a recently published dataset of T cell epitopes recognized in vaccinia virus (VACV) infected C57BL/6 mice. The dataset, which is the most comprehensive of its kind, included both peptides predicted to bind Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) and experimentally eluted peptides from infected cells. The study found that neural network-based predictions trained on both MHC binding and MHC ligand elution data performed best, capturing more than half of the major epitopes in the top predictions. This benchmark provides guidance for immunologists on which methods to use and what success rates are possible for epitope predictions. The study was implemented in an open and easily reproducible format, offering a framework for future comparisons against new tools.T cell epitopes are crucial for various immunological applications, including vaccine development, diagnostics, and cancer immunotherapy. Computational T cell epitope prediction tools help reduce the time and resources needed for epitope identification projects by narrowing down the peptide repertoire that needs to be experimentally tested. Most epitope prediction tools are developed using machine learning algorithms trained on either MHC binding affinities or naturally processed MHC ligands. However, it is essential to compare the performance of different methods to help users make informed decisions and for developers to understand what improvements can be made.The study used a dataset of T cell epitopes recognized in C57BL/6 mice infected with VACV, which covered all peptides that can theoretically be encoded in the VACV proteome and were presented by either H-2Db or H-2Kb molecules expressed in these mice. The dataset included epitopes identified following a large-scale screen of predicted peptide ligands, all epitopes recognized in a comprehensive screen of a VACV protein expression library, and all peptides found to be naturally processed and presented by MHC ligand elution assays using mass spectrometry. The major epitopes were defined as those recognized in more than half of the animals, while negatives were defined as never recognized in any animal.All publicly available computational algorithms were evaluated based on their ability to pick the major epitopes from within the total peptides that can be derived from VACV using different metrics such as AUC (area under the ROC curve), number of peptides needed to capture different fractions of the epitopes, number of epitopes captured in the top set of predicted peptides, and the magnitude of T cell response accounted for at different thresholds. The study found that neural network-based predictions trained on both MHC binding and MHC ligand elution data performed best, capturing more than half of the major epitopes in the top predictions. This benchmark provides valuable insights into the performance of T cell epitope prediction tools and offers a framework for future comparisons against new methods.Keywords: T cell epitopes, vaccines, diagnostics, cancer, protein therapeutics, computational prediction tools, machine learning, MHC binding, MHC ligand elution, Vaccinia virus, immunology, immunotherapy, immunogenetics, immunoinformatics, immunoinformatics tools, immunoinformatics resources, immunoinformatics databases, immunoinformatics platforms, immunoinformatics software, immunoinformatics algorithms, immunoinformatics methods, immunoinformatics research, immunoinformatics applications, immunoinformatics analysis, immunoinformatics data, immunoinformatics resources, immunoinformatics tools, immunoinformatics software, immunoinformatics algorithms, immunoinformatics methods, immunoinformatics research, immunoinformatics applications, immunoinformatics analysis, immunoinformatics data, immunoinformatics resources, immunoinformatics tools, immunoinformatics software, immunoinformatics algorithms, immunoinformatics methods, immunoinformatics research, immunoinformatics applications, immunoinformatics analysis, immunoinformatics data, immunoinformatics resources, immunoinformatics tools, immunoinformatics software, immunoinformatics algorithms, immunoinformatics methods, immunoinformatics research, immunoinformatics applications, immunoinformatics analysis, immunoinformatics data, immunoinformatics resources, immunoinformatics tools, immunoinformatics software
A recent study investigated the relationship between paternal obesity and DNA methylation changes in spermatozoa, which could potentially influence offspring development in utero. The study used the Illumina MethylationEPIC array to analyze DNA methylation in matched human blood and sperm samples from lean and obese males. The results showed that DNA methylation signatures in blood and sperm are highly discordant, and methylation levels are correlated at only a minority of CpG sites. Obesity-associated methylation changes in blood were not generally reflected in spermatozoa. However, one obesity-specific hypermethylated site was identified, warranting further investigation. Spermatozoa displayed differential DNA methylation across pathways enriched in transcriptional regulation. Overall, human sperm displays a unique DNA methylation profile that is highly discordant to, and practically uncorrelated with, that of matched peripheral blood. The study suggests that spermatozoal DNA methylation is an unlikely mediator of intergenerational effects of metabolic traits.Introduction:Epidemiological research suggests that paternal obesity may increase the risk of fathering small for gestational age offspring. Studies in non-human mammals indicate that such associations could be mediated by DNA methylation changes in spermatozoa. Human obesity is associated with differential DNA methylation in peripheral blood. However, it is unclear whether this differential DNA methylation is reflected in spermatozoa. This study aimed to analyze tissue covariation of DNA methylation and identify obesity-associated methylomic signatures in matched human blood and sperm samples.Methods:Genome-wide DNA methylation was profiled using the Illumina MethylationEPIC array in a cross-sectional study of 47 discovery and 21 replication lean (BMI < 25 kg/m2) and 22 obese (BMI > 26 kg/m2) males. DNA methylation signatures in blood and sperm were compared, and obesity-associated methylation changes in blood were identified and compared to spermatozoa. Spermatozoal DNA methylation data was also compared to that of nearly 6,000 somatic tissue samples available on the Gene Expression Omnibus data repository.Results:The study found that DNA methylation signatures in blood and sperm are highly discordant, and methylation levels are correlated at only a minority of CpG sites. Obesity-associated DNA methylation in blood was not generally reflected in spermatozoa. However, one obesity-specific hypermethylated site was identified. Spermatozoa displayed differential DNA methylation across pathways enriched in transcriptional regulation.Conclusion:The study suggests that human sperm displays a unique DNA methylation profile that is highly discordant to, and practically uncorrelated with, that of matched peripheral blood. Obesity was only nominally associated with differential DNA methylation in sperm, and therefore, spermatozoal DNA methylation is an unlikely mediator of intergenerational effects of metabolic traits.Keywords: DNA modification, nucleic acids, genome analysis, genetics, DNA replication, chromosome biology, chromatin, body mass index, cellular types, anatomy, genomics, cell biology, gene expression, biochemistry, blood, DNA methylation, single nucleotide polymorphisms, sperm, medicine and health sciences, chromatin modification, animal cells, epigenetics, physiology, computational biology, anatomy, body fluids.
Reovirus, a neurotropic virus, is known to cause lethal encephalitis in newborn animals by invading the central nervous system (CNS). Understanding the mechanisms of reovirus neuronal entry and transport is crucial for combating neurotropic viral infections. In this study, researchers used primary neuron cultures to investigate reovirus neuronal entry and transport. They discovered that macropinocytosis, a cellular mechanism for large-scale fluid uptake, is required for reovirus neuronal entry, while clathrin-mediated endocytosis, the primary mechanism for reovirus entry into non-neuronal cells, is not involved. Reovirus is capable of retrograde but limited anterograde transport in neurons, which is coordinated by dynein along microtubules. Reovirus-containing vesicles acidify after reaching the soma, allowing for virion disassembly and release of the viral core into the cytoplasm. These findings provide insights into the mechanisms of reovirus neuronal entry and transport and establish a foundation for identifying common host factors used by neuroinvasive viruses. Additionally, the findings emphasize the importance of considering cell type-specific entry mechanisms in the development of neurotropic viruses as tracers, oncolytic agents, and delivery vectors.
Malaria, caused by the Plasmodium falciparum parasite, remains a major global health concern with an estimated 229 million cases and 409,000 deaths in 2019. The current leading vaccine, RTS, S/AS01, has shown significant reduction of clinical and severe malaria in endemic cohorts but its efficacy declines over time. While most attention has focused on antibodies to repeat motifs on the circumsporozoite protein (PfCSP), other regions may also play a role in protection. In this study, seven monoclonal antibodies to the C-terminal domain of CSP (ctCSP) were expressed and characterized from volunteers immunized with RTS, S/AS01. These antibodies targeted two different sites on opposite faces of ctCSP, one of which was a previously described site (α-ctCSP) and the other a new site on the conserved β-sheet face (β-ctCSP). Antibodies to the β-site exhibited broad reactivity with a diverse panel of ctCSP peptides and one of these antibodies demonstrated inhibition activity against malaria infection in a murine model. This study identifies a previously unidentified conserved epitope on CSP that could be targeted by prophylactic antibodies and exploited in structure-based vaccine design.Malaria is a major global health concern, with an estimated 229 million cases and 409,000 deaths in 2019. The current leading vaccine, RTS, S/AS01, is the only vaccine to have demonstrated significant reduction of clinical and severe malaria in endemic cohorts, but its efficacy declines over time. While most attention has focused on antibodies to repeat motifs on the circumsporozoite protein (PfCSP), other regions may also play a role in protection. In this study, seven monoclonal antibodies to the C-terminal domain of CSP (ctCSP) were expressed and characterized from volunteers immunized with RTS, S/AS01. These antibodies targeted two different sites on opposite faces of ctCSP, one of which was a previously described site (α-ctCSP) and the other a new site on the conserved β-sheet face (β-ctCSP). Antibodies to the β-site exhibited broad reactivity with a diverse panel of ctCSP peptides and one of these antibodies demonstrated inhibition activity against malaria infection in a murine model. This study identifies a previously unidentified conserved epitope on CSP that could be targeted by prophylactic antibodies and exploited in structure-based vaccine design.The PfCSP protein is a major antigen of Plasmodium falciparum, the parasite that causes malaria. The current leading vaccine, RTS, S/AS01, is effective but its efficacy declines over time. While most attention has focused on antibodies to repeat motifs on the PfCSP protein, other regions may also play a role in protection. In this study, seven monoclonal antibodies to the C-terminal domain of PfCSP were expressed and characterized from volunteers immunized with RTS, S/AS01. These antibodies targeted two different sites on opposite faces of the protein, one of which was a previously described site and the other a new site on the conserved β-sheet face. Antibodies to the new site showed broad reactivity with a diverse range of PfCSP peptides and one of these antibodies demonstrated inhibition activity against malaria infection in a mouse model. This study identifies a previously unidentified conserved epitope on PfCSP that could be targeted by prophylactic antibodies and used in structure-based vaccine design.Keywords: Malaria, Plasmodium falciparum, PfCSP, C-terminal domain, Monoclonal antibodies, Epitope, Conserved region, Structure-based vaccine design, Inhibition activity, Murine model.
Toxoplasma gondii, a parasitic protozoan, infects a wide range of warm-blooded animals, including humans, and can cause significant health risks, particularly for individuals with compromised immune systems and pregnant women. Toxoplasma gondii strains are classified into three distinct lineages, or genotypes, which vary in virulence in mice. Lysine malonylation is a post-translational modification that regulates various cellular processes, but little is known about the differences in lysine malonylation between Toxoplasma gondii strains of different genotypes. In this study, researchers used quantitative liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and immuno-affinity purification to profile lysine malonylation in three Toxoplasma gondii strains: RH (type I), PRU (type II), and VEG (type III). They identified 111 differentially malonylated proteins and 152 sites in RH versus PRU, 50 proteins and 59 sites in RH versus VEG, and 72 proteins and 90 sites in VEG versus PRU. Differentially malonylated proteins were involved in key processes, such as protein metabolism, stress response, glycolysis, and actin cytoskeleton. These findings reveal an association between lysine malonylation and intra-species virulence differences in Toxoplasma gondii and offer a new resource for understanding the contribution of lysine malonylation to energy metabolism and virulence in this parasite.
A new study reveals the discovery of a novel nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) in the pharynx of nematodes, which is a potential new drug target for anthelmintics. This homomeric receptor, composed of five non-Î± EAT-2 subunits, is not sensitive to existing cholinomimetic anthelmintics. The study also identified EAT-18, a novel auxiliary subunit protein, which is essential for the functional expression of the receptor and interacts directly with the mature receptor. The findings suggest that this new type of obligate auxiliary protein for nAChRs could lead to the development of new anthelmintic drugs.Nematodes, which infect approximately 1.5 billion people globally, are a significant public health concern. The need for new, more effective anthelmintic drugs is accepted, as current treatments rely mostly on surgical excision and have limited efficacy against some parasites. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are targeted by cholinomimetic anthelmintics, while glutamate-gated chloride channels in the pharynx of nematodes are affected by avermectins.The study describes a novel nicotinic acetylcholine receptor on the nematode pharynx, which is a potential new drug target. This homomeric receptor, composed of five non-Î± EAT-2 subunits, is not sensitive to existing cholinomimetic anthelmintics. The researchers found that EAT-18, a novel auxiliary subunit protein, is essential for the functional expression of the receptor. EAT-18 directly interacts with the mature receptor, and different homologs alter the pharmacological properties.Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors are pore-forming membrane proteins that facilitate rapid ionotropic neurotransmission and control various physiological behaviors in nematodes. They are conserved throughout metazoan evolution and are attractive anthelmintic targets due to their diverse pharmacological sensitivities. The introduction of recently discovered drugs such as amino-acetonitrile compounds (monepental) and spiroindoles (derquantel) further highlights their importance in drug discovery.The study provides crucial insights into the role of autophagy in the pathogenesis of Buruli ulcer, a neglected tropical disease caused by Mycobacterium ulcerans. The findings indicate that genetic variation in autophagy-related genes influences the risk and course of BU disease.Keywords: nematodes, anthelmintics, nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, drug discovery, autophagy, Buruli ulcer, Mycobacterium ulcerans, public health, pharmacology, neurotransmission, ion channels, auxiliary proteins.
HIV-1, the virus that causes AIDS, infects CD4 T lymphocytes (CD4TL) by binding to the chemokine receptors CCR5 or CXCR4. CXCR4-using viruses are considered more pathogenic and linked to faster progression to AIDS. However, not all CXCR4-using viruses behave the same way. In this study, researchers investigated the role of the CXCR4 chemokine CXCL12 in virus virulence. In vitro, CXCL12 prevents HIV-1 from binding CXCR4 and entering CD4TL, but its role in virus transmission and propagation is unclear. The researchers analyzed 30 envelope glycoproteins (Envs) from patients at different stages of infection and found that some Env variants are resistant to CXCL12 inhibition. These resistant Env variants (REs) are more common in patients with low CD4TL levels, most often late in infection. REs adopt a more closed conformation with distinct antigenicity compared to CXCL12-sensitive (SENS) Envs. At the cellular level, resistance is not due to improved fusion or binding to CD4, but rather to viruses using particular CXCR4 molecules that are less accessible to CXCL12. REs have an enhanced capacity to enter naive CD4TL when surrounded by CXCL12, which mirrors their situation in lymphoid organs. This suggests that REs may contribute to CD4TL deregulation. These findings improve our understanding of HIV-1 pathophysiology and transmission and suggest that REs' receptors could be new therapeutic targets to help prevent CD4TL depletion in HIV+ patients on antiretroviral therapy.
Zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis (ZCL) is a disease transmitted by sand flies that inhabit the dens of hyraxes, the reservoir animals, in Palestine. Despite control measures implemented since 1996, ZCL cases still occur. In this study, researchers investigated the effect of insecticide thermal fogging inside hyrax dens on sand fly density and Leishmania infection. During July-September 2019, a 12-week controlled interrupted time series study was conducted in two control and one intervention site, each containing three hyrax dens. Pyrethrin thermal fogging was implemented in the intervention site at week 6. Sand fly abundance inside dens was measured weekly and 36 hours post-intervention using CDC light traps. Next-Generation Sequencing was used to identify sand fly Leishmania species and infection.Of the 11,427 collected sand flies, 7,339 (64%) were females and 1,786 (16%) were Phlebotomus species. Phlebotomus sergenti was the dominant species, making up 43% of the total. The researchers report the presence of Phlebotomus arabicus in Palestine for the first time. After fogging, Phlebotomus species abundance reduction (AR) was 93% at 36 hours, 18% and 38% at two and five weeks, and 41% during the complete post-intervention period. In the regression models, Phlebotomus species density in the intervention site decreased by 74% (IRR: 0.26, 95%CI: 0.11-0.57) at two weeks, 34% (IRR: 0.66, 95%CI: 0.48-0.90) at five weeks, and 74% (IRR: 0.26, 95%CI: 0.12-0.59) during the complete period. The density of Leishmania infected sand flies decreased by 65% (IRR: 0.35, 95%CI: 0.26-0.48) at five weeks and 82% (IRR: 0.18, 95%CI: 0.07-0.42) for the complete period (zero infections until week two). Leishmania infection prevalence in the intervention site was 14% pre-intervention and 3.9% post-intervention. Fogging hyrax dens reduced sand fly abundance and Leishmania infection during the 5-week post-intervention period, especially the first two weeks, suggesting it could be an effective source-reduction measure for ZCL vectors. Future randomized controlled trials are needed to confirm the effectiveness of fogging hyrax dens on decreasing ZCL incidence.
Foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) is a single-stranded RNA virus that causes foot-and-mouth disease in cloven-hoofed animals. The virus's genome consists of a single open reading frame flanked by untranslated regions (UTRs) at the 5' and 3' ends. The 5' UTR of FMDV is unusually long and contains several distinct structural motifs, including multiple pseudoknots (PKs). The role of these PKs in the FMDV life cycle is not well understood. In this study, researchers used bioinformatics, sub-genomic replicons, and recombinant viruses to investigate the structural conservation and importance of the PKs in FMDV replication. Their results showed that while a replicon lacking PKs could replicate, it did so at reduced levels. Additionally, replicons with fewer than two PKs were outcompeted by a replicon with four PKs, suggesting a replicative advantage for the additional PKs. A replicon completely lacking PKs was not viable, indicating that at least one PK is essential for virus recovery. These findings suggest that PKs play roles in both vRNA replication and virion assembly, improving our understanding of FMDV replication and the wider roles of PKs in RNA functions.Introduction:Foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) is a single-stranded RNA virus that causes foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) in cloven-hoofed animals, including cattle, pigs, sheep, and goats. The disease has significant economic consequences due to trade restrictions, reduced productivity, and the slaughter of infected and at-risk animals. The virus is antigenically diverse, with seven serotypes, and vaccines are strain-specific and provide little cross-protection. An improved understanding of the viral life cycle could lead to the development of improved vaccines and other control measures. The FMDV genome consists of a single open reading frame flanked by 5' and 3' untranslated regions (UTRs). The 5' UTR is the largest of any picornavirus, spanning approximately 1,300 nucleotides (nts) and containing several highly structured regions. The first 300-400 nts of the FMDV 5' UTR are predicted to fold into a single large stem-loop termed the S-fragment, followed by a variable length poly-C tract, a region containing two to four tandemly repeated PKs, the cis-acting replication element (cre), and the internal ribosome entry site (IRES). The roles of the S-fragment, poly-C tract, and PKs in viral replication have not been fully elucidated. Recent studies have shown that truncations to the S-fragment can affect the ability to control aspects of the innate immune response to viral infection, and viruses with a deletion within the PK region exhibit an attenuated phenotype in bovine but not porcine cells, suggesting a role for the PKs in determining viral tropism. The PKs were first predicted in 1987 using the DotKnot program. Two to four tandem repeats of a ~48 nt region containing a small stem-loop and downstream interaction site were predicted. The presence of PKs has been reported in the 5' UTR of only two other picornaviruses, equine rhinitis A virus (ERAV) and encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV), but their location in the FMDV genome is unique. PKs have been reported to have roles in several aspects of viral replication, including RNA splicing, ribosomal frameshifting, and RNase protection. In this study, researchers investigated the conserved RNA structure of FMDV PKs and their role in the FMDV life cycle.Keywords: Foot-and-mouth disease virus, FMDV, picornavirus, RNA structure, pseudoknots, viral replication, RNA, nucleic acids, genetics, transfection, molecular biology, virology, zoology, biochemistry, molecular biology techniques.
A new study aimed to assess the palatability of two new orally disintegrating tablet (ODT) formulations of Praziquantel (PZQ), the only recommended drug for schistosomiasis infection, in children aged 6-11 years old. The study was conducted in Tanzania and compared the palatability of Levo-Praziquantel (L-PZQ) ODT and Racemate Praziquantel (Rac-PZQ) ODT, both without and with water, to the standard formulation of PZQ. The results showed that both new formulations were more palatable than the standard formulation, with higher ratings on a visual analogue scale for both older children and all age groups. No serious adverse events were reported. The study suggests that the new paediatric-friendly formulations of PZQ, which are dispersed in water, are more palatable than the existing standard formulation. However, further research is needed to assess the efficacy and tolerability of the new ODTs in younger children. The trial was registered on ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT02315352) and the Pan African Clinical Trials Registry (PACTR201412000959159).Introduction:Schistosomiasis is a neglected tropical disease that affects millions of people worldwide, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. The disease can cause significant health problems, including impairment of growth and development, anaemia, and far-reaching complications in multiple organ systems. Praziquantel (PZQ) is the only recommended drug for schistosomiasis infection, but its current tablet formulation is not suitable for pre-school age children due to its bitterness and large size. The development of a paediatric-friendly formulation of PZQ is crucial for increasing medication uptake and enabling the inclusion of preschoolers in mass drug administration campaigns. The Paediatric Praziquantel Consortium was formed to develop an ODT formulation of PZQ for the treatment of pre-school age children and obtain regulatory approval. This study, conducted by Ifakara Health Institute in collaboration with the Consortium, aimed to evaluate the palatability of two new ODT formulations of PZQ in comparison with the currently available PZQ tablets.
A new study has discovered a novel mechanism of action (MOA) and specific compounds to treat all nine human and animal herpesviruses, including herpes simplex virus 1 and 2, varicella-zoster virus, Epstein-Barr virus, Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus, and human cytomegalovirus. The MOA targets the pressurized genome state in a viral capsid, "turns off" capsid pressure, and blocks viral genome ejection into a cell nucleus, preventing viral replication. This discovery provides a platform for the development of a new class of broad-spectrum treatments for herpesviruses and other viral infections with genome-pressure-dependent replication. The biophysical approach to antiviral treatment is also a vital strategy to prevent the spread of emerging viruses where vaccine development is challenged by high mutation rates or other evasion mechanisms. The study identified small polycationic molecules, or polyamines, that can permeate the herpesvirus lipid envelope and capsid pores, bind to intracapsid DNA, and condense the packaged genome, thereby removing capsid genome pressure and halting viral DNA ejection into a nucleus. The compounds are non-toxic and can serve as lead compounds for further anti-herpes drug development. The research is significant as herpesviruses are a leading cause of human viral disease and current antiviral drugs target viral proteins, making resistance a concern. The discovery of this new target, which is independent of nucleotide sequences, is expected to prevent the development of drug resistance.
A group of four islands in the Nicobar district of India, known as Nancowry Islands, is home to a unique strain of Wuchereria bancrofti, known as diurnally sub-periodic Wuchereria bancrofti (DspWB), which is transmitted by the Aedes niveus mosquito. Despite nine rounds of Mass Drug Administration (MDA) with DEC and albendazole, the prevalence of microfilaria in the population remained above 1%, indicating continued transmission. To assess the impact of MDA and identify the most effective mosquito sampling method, molecular xenomonitoring (MX) was conducted. Three trapping devices - BioGents Sentinel traps, gravid traps, and human baited double bed net traps - were used in three villages to collect Aedes niveus female mosquitoes. Daytime man landing collections (MLC) were carried out in all 25 villages. The average prevalence of W. bancrofti DNA in the collected mosquitoes was 0.43%, with an estimated upper 95% CI exceeding the provisional prevalence threshold of 0.1% in all villages, indicating continued transmission. MLCs were found to be the most productive method for collecting Aedes niveus mosquitoes. The PCR assay used in MX for nocturnally periodic bancroftian filariasis could be adopted for DspWB. The vector-parasite MX can be used to evaluate interventions in this area after further standardization of the protocol.
A protein called CREB-binding protein (CBP) plays a crucial role in numerous transcription events, but the cellular mechanisms that inhibit its activity are not well understood. In this study, researchers discovered that a protein called USP12 interacts with the acetyltransferase domain of CBP and inhibits its activity. Interestingly, USP12 positively regulates interferon (IFN) antiviral signaling without requiring its deubiquitinase activity. The researchers also found that USP12 translocates from the cytoplasm to the nucleus during IFN signaling, which facilitates CBP-induced acetylation and activation of IFN signaling proteins in the cytoplasm. In the nucleus, USP12 blocks CBP-induced acetylation of phosphorylated STAT1 (p-STAT1), maintaining nuclear p-STAT1 levels and enhancing IFN antiviral efficacy. This study sheds new light on the regulation of IFN antiviral signaling and provides potential strategies for developing IFN-based antiviral therapy.CBP is a widely expressed protein that plays a major role in regulating various cellular activities, including proliferation, cell cycle, differentiation, apoptosis, and DNA damage responses. It contains several domains that control its interaction with different proteins or its acetyltransferase activity. CBP primarily localizes in the nucleus, where it regulates transcription events by acetylating a large number of transcription-related factors. For instance, in the IFN signaling pathway, nuclear CBP can acetylate tyrosine 701-phosphorylated STAT1 (pY701-STAT1), leading to the recruitment of the phosphatase TCPTP, which downregulates the levels of nuclear pY701-STAT1 and inhibits transcriptional expression of Interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs). During DNA damage response, CBP can acetylate p53 and other proteins for transcription regulation. The central roles of CBP in regulating cellular functions have led to efforts to develop specific inhibitors of its acetyltransferase activity for preclinical studies. However, cell-intrinsic inhibitors of CBP's acetyltransferase activity have not been identified.The researchers identified an interaction between USP12 and CBP and found that USP12 inhibits CBP-mediated pan-acetylation effects in cells. USP12 is a ubiquitin-specific protease (DUB) that can upregulate levels of several proteins by its deubiquitinase activity. However, USP12 does not affect CBP protein levels, suggesting a catalytic activity-independent regulation by USP12. The researchers focused on studying the roles of the USP12/CBP interaction in IFN signaling, as CBP regulates both the cytoplasmic signaling and the nuclear transcription factor STAT1 in this pathway. They found that IFN signaling stimulates translocation of USP12 from the cytoplasm to the nucleus. The decrease in cytoplasmic USP12 facilitates CBP-mediated acetylation of IFN signaling proteins. The accumulation of USP12 in the nucleus blocks the acetylation effect of CBP on pY701-STAT1, thus inhibiting the binding and dephosphorylation effects of TCPTP on nuclear pY701-STAT1. As a consequence, USP12 translocation from the cytoplasm to the nucleus is critical for both activation and sustainment of IFN signaling.These findings could provide new strategies for inhibiting CBP acetyltransferase activity in cells and for improving IFN-based antiviral therapy.
Two previously unknown orthobunyaviruses, Melao virus (MELV) and Oropouche virus (OROV), were identified in plasma samples from Haitian children with acute febrile illness during outbreaks caused by alpha- and flaviviruses in 2014. MELV was isolated from five case patients and OROV RNA was detected in an additional child using unbiased sequencing. Abdominal pain and lymphadenopathy were reported in some of the MELV-infected children. These findings document the occurrence of these orthobunyaviruses within the Caribbean region and highlight the importance of viral genome sequence analyses for identifying outbreaks caused by emerging viruses.Orthobunyaviruses are enveloped viruses with a genome composed of three segments of negative-sense single-stranded RNAs. MELV was first isolated from mosquitoes in Trinidad and can cause infections leading to antibody production in horses and humans. However, there have been no prior reports of MELV-associated human illness. OROV causes Oropouche febrile illness, which is a common arbovirus-associated febrile illness in Brazil, and is known to cause meningoencephalitis.Our study is the first to report the isolation of MELV from and detection of OROV RNA in plasma samples collected from children in Haiti. These findings are significant as neither virus has been previously reported in Haiti, and this is the first time orthobunyaviruses have been detected in febrile patients at our study sites. These findings underscore the importance of viral genome sequence analyses for identifying outbreaks caused by emerging viruses.Keywords: orthobunyaviruses, Melao virus, Oropouche virus, Haiti, acute febrile illness, genome sequence analyses, emerging viruses.
A DNA vaccine against COVID-19, specifically targeting the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2, was developed using electroporation for delivery. The spike genes of SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 were optimized for mammalian expression and cloned into mammalian cell expression vectors, pSARS-S and pSARS2-S, respectively. Immunization with both vaccines resulted in similar levels of antibodies against the S2 protein of SARS-CoV-2. However, only pSARS2-S immunization induced high titers of neutralizing antibodies against the receptor-binding domain of SARS-CoV-2. Immunization in hamsters with pSARS2-S induced Th1-biased immune responses and protective immunity against SARS-CoV-2 challenge. These findings suggest that DNA vaccination could be a promising approach for protecting against COVID-19.The COVID-19 pandemic, caused by SARS-CoV-2, has had significant impacts on the global economy and health. Spike protein, the major antigen responsible for virus attachment, cell entry, and membrane fusion, is a potential target for vaccine development. SARS-CoV-2 S protein-based vaccines have been shown to induce neutralizing antibodies and T cell immune responses, protecting animals from virus challenge. DNA vaccines, which can be produced quickly and easily, are an attractive option due to their stability, low production cost, and ability to induce both humoral and cell-mediated immune responses. However, the major challenge of DNA vaccines is their poor delivery efficiency. Electroporation (EP) is a physical method used to increase DNA delivery efficiency and enhance vaccine efficacy. In this study, a DNA vaccine delivered via electroporation was developed, which induced neutralizing antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 and Th1-biased immune responses in hamsters, resulting in protective immunity against SARS-CoV-2 challenge.Keywords: COVID-19, SARS-CoV-2, DNA vaccine, Spike protein, Electroporation, Neutralizing antibodies, Th1 immune response, Hamsters, Protective immunity.
Lymphatic filariasis (LF) is a neglected tropical disease that causes chronic manifestations such as lymphedema and hydrocele, leading to significant disability. Morbidity management and disability prevention (MMDP) services are essential for managing LF patients, but there is limited information on health beliefs and health-seeking behavior towards these services in endemic regions, such as Luangwa District, Zambia. This study aimed to document these beliefs and behaviors through focus group discussions and in-depth interviews with community members, including LF patients, community health workers, and healthcare providers. The findings revealed that the causes of chronic LF manifestations were believed to be contact with animal feces, use of traditional herbal aphrodisiacs, witchcraft, and sexual contact with menstruating or miscarrying women. LF patients often visited traditional healers before seeking care at health facilities. Hydrocele patients were afraid of hydrocelectomies due to beliefs that they cause infertility or death. Few community members were aware of home and facility-based care strategies for lymphedema. Barriers to seeking healthcare included long distances to health facilities, lack of awareness of MMDP services, perceived costs, gender and social norms, and fear of stigmatization. Health seeking behavior for LF in Luangwa District is primarily driven by negative beliefs about the causes of the disease and lack of awareness of available MMDP services and homecare strategies. To improve access to and utilization of MMDP services, programs should empower patients and community members with information and promote self-care practices.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) is a retrovirus that infects CD4+ T-cells and can lead to adult T-cell leukemia or myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis. The virus persists in the body by spreading from cell to cell, and the accessory protein p8 plays a crucial role in this process. p8 is a cleavage product of the precursor protein p12 and is recruited to lipid rafts and the immunological synapse upon T-cell receptor ligation. It increases the number and length of cellular conduits between T-cells, which are membrane extensions that facilitate viral transmission. In this study, researchers identified vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP) as a novel interaction partner of p8 and an important factor in p8 and HTLV-1 Gag transfer between cells. VASP is a protein that promotes actin filament elongation and is enriched in focal contacts and along stress fibers. The researchers found that a short sequence in p8 (aa 24-45) interacts with the EVH1 domain of VASP, and that this interaction is necessary for p8 transfer to target T-cells and HTLV-1 Gag transfer. Repression of VASP by RNA interference or CRISPR/Cas9 reduced p8 transfer and HTLV-1 Gag transfer to target T-cells, while virus release was unaffected. Overall, these findings suggest that VASP plays a crucial role in HTLV-1 transmission and may be a potential target for preventing the spread of the virus.
Sensory deprivation, such as hearing loss leading to tinnitus, can cause hallucinations or "phantom" sensations. Tinnitus affects around 10-20% of the population and is often accompanied by a hearing loss that causes sensory deprivation in a specific frequency range. Existing models of tinnitus are typically based on homeostatic mechanisms, but a new study used an objective-driven learning algorithm to model an early auditory processing neuronal network in the dorsal cochlear nucleus. The learning algorithm maximizes the network's output entropy by learning feed-forward and recurrent interactions. The results showed that the learned connectivity patterns and responses of the model display several hallmarks of early auditory neuronal networks and can enter a tinnitus-like state in the absence of external stimulation. This study demonstrates how objective-driven plasticity mechanisms can lead to pathologies like tinnitus as a result of sensory deprivation.The dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) is a key structure in the auditory pathway associated with tinnitus generation. It receives inputs from the auditory nerve and has a sharp detection of specific notches. The DCN also receives non-auditory inputs, such as somatosensory and vestibular projections, which are upregulated in tinnitus and can affect perceived tinnitus. Previous computational models of tinnitus have been based on lateral inhibition or gain adaptation, but they do not account for long-term neural plasticity. The new study used an entropy maximization (EM) approach in a recurrent neural network to model the connection between raw sensory input and its downstream representation, which has been successful in modeling feed-forward connectivity in the primary visual cortex. The findings suggest that hallucinations following sensory deprivation can stem from general long-term plasticity mechanisms that act to optimize the representation of sensory information.Keywords: sensory deprivation, tinnitus, recurrent neural networks, objective-driven learning, dorsal cochlear nucleus, auditory processing, neural plasticity, entropy maximization, auditory hallucinations.
 Porcine hemagglutinating encephalomyelitis virus (PHEV) is a neurotropic coronavirus that primarily infects pigs through respiratory droplets and close contact, and can cause neurological manifestations. In this study, we found that BALB/c mice are susceptible to intranasal PHEV infection and exhibit neurological symptoms, including smell and taste dysfunction. We identified that PHEV invades the central nervous system (CNS) via the olfactory nerve and trigeminal nerve in the nasal cavity, and olfactory sensory neurons are susceptible to viral infection. Immunofluorescence staining and ultrastructural observations suggest that axonal transport may facilitate rapid viral transmission in the CNS. Viral replication in the olfactory system and CNS is associated with inflammatory and immune responses, tissue disorganization, and dysfunction. PHEV may serve as a useful model for understanding the pathogenesis of coronavirus-associated neurological complications and olfactory and taste disorders.
During metamorphosis, the holometabolous insect Helicoverpa armigera, or cotton bollworm, undergoes significant changes to maintain glucose metabolism homeostasis. The steroid hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E) plays a crucial role in this process by upregulating the transcription factor Krüppel-like factor 15 (KLF15) to promote autophagy, apoptosis, and gluconeogenesis. 20E binds to its nuclear receptor EcR, which in turn upregulates Klf15 transcription in the fat body during metamorphosis. Knockdown of Klf15 delays pupation and represses autophagy and apoptosis in the larval fat body, leading to an accumulation of free fatty acids (FFAs), glycerol, free amino acids (FAAs), and glucose. KLF15 promotes autophagic flux and transits to apoptosis, binding to the KLF binding site (KLF bs) in the Atg8 promoter to upregulate Atg8 expression. Knockdown of Atg8 reduces FFAs, glycerol, and FAAs, while knockdown of Klf15 accumulates these same metabolites. Glycolysis is switched to gluconeogenesis, and trehalose and glycogen synthesis are changed to degradation, accompanied by the variation of related genes' expression. KLF15 upregulates phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (Pepck) expression by binding to KLF bs in the Pepck promoter for gluconeogenesis, which utilizes FFAs, glycerol, and FAAs directly or indirectly to increase glucose in the hemolymph. Overall, 20E via KLF15 integrates autophagy and gluconeogenesis by promoting autophagy-related and gluconeogenesis-related genes' expression.
A team of researchers used molecular dynamics simulations to study the structure of the SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) protein, the primary target of COVID-19 vaccines, and identified potential antibody binding sites. The S protein, which mediates viral entry into the host cell, is covered in a protective glycan shield that shields a larger surface area than expected. The researchers found that the glycan shield and its hinges have low epitope scores, but they identified several promising epitope candidates for structure-based vaccine design. Their computational epitope-mapping procedure should be useful for other viral envelope proteins. The findings highlight the importance of considering the dynamic nature of the glycan shield when designing vaccines and therapeutics.The SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes COVID-19, has emerged as the most significant global health crisis in recent history. Vaccines are the most promising strategy to end the pandemic, and the primary vaccine target is the S protein on the viral envelope. The S protein mediates viral entry into the target cell by binding to the human angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor and undergoing a transition from a prefusion to a postfusion conformation. Preventing this transition or blocking the interaction between the S protein and ACE2 would prevent cell entry and infection.The researchers performed molecular dynamics simulations of a 4.1 million atom system containing a patch of viral membrane with four full-length, fully glycosylated and palmitoylated S proteins. They mapped steric accessibility, structural rigidity, sequence conservation, and generic antibody binding signatures to recover known epitopes on the S protein and identify promising epitope candidates for structure-based vaccine design.The extensive and flexible glycan coat shields a larger surface area than expected, and the protective glycan shield and the high flexibility of its hinges give the stalk an overall low epitope score. The researchers' computational epitope-mapping procedure is general and should prove useful for other viral envelope proteins whose structures have been characterized.The findings highlight the importance of considering the dynamic nature of the glycan shield when designing vaccines and therapeutics. The researchers identified several epitope candidates on the S protein, including sites in the ACE2 receptor-binding domain (RBD) and the functionally important S2 domain, which harbors the fusion machinery. Their findings should inform the development of more effective and broadly protective vaccines and therapeutics against SARS-CoV-2 and potentially other viruses.Keywords: SARS-CoV-2, COVID-19, spike protein, molecular dynamics simulations, epitope mapping, glycan shield, vaccine design, computational biology.
Type I interferons (IFNs) play a crucial role in the body's defense against viral infections, including COVID-19. However, the timing of IFN administration is critical for its effectiveness against SARS-CoV-2. In a study using Syrian hamsters, early administration of IFN-α, either one day before or one day after infection, reduced weight loss and decreased viral lung titers. However, IFN-α administration at the onset of symptoms, three days post-infection, had no impact on the clinical course of COVID-19. These findings suggest that early intervention with type I IFNs is beneficial, while late interventions may be ineffective and potentially harmful. This study provides valuable information for the design and interpretation of ongoing clinical trials evaluating recombinant type I IFNs as therapeutics for COVID-19.Keywords: COVID-19, SARS-CoV-2, Type I interferons, Syrian hamsters, antiviral cytokines, antiviral therapy, clinical trials, vaccine development, antiviral drugs, antiviral mechanisms, viral infections, interferon signaling, antiviral response, antiviral immunity, antiviral research.
MALDI-TOF MS (Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption/Ionization Time-of-Flight Mass Spectrometry) is a powerful tool that has revolutionized clinical microbiology and is now being explored in the field of medical entomology for the identification of freshwater snails, which are intermediate hosts of schistosomes, the parasites that cause human schistosomiasis. In this study, researchers evaluated the use of MALDI-TOF MS for the identification of both frozen and ethanol-stored snail species using protein extracts from different body parts. The study involved 530 field specimens belonging to nine species and 89 laboratory-reared specimens, and the results showed that MALDI-TOF MS yielded intra-species reproducibility and inter-species specificity, enabling the correct identification of all the specimens in blind queries. This is the first time that MALDI-TOF MS has been shown to be a reliable tool for the rapid identification of frozen and ethanol-stored freshwater snails without any malacological expertise. This method could significantly improve the accuracy and efficiency of schistosomiasis epidemiological studies and aid in the development of new control strategies.
A significant health problem worldwide is the contamination of food and water by parasites such as Cryptosporidium and Giardia, which can cause serious illness. Currently, methods for detecting these parasites require specialized equipment and trained personnel, making them expensive and difficult to implement in resource-limited settings. In this study, a smartphone-based microscopic assay was developed to screen for Cryptosporidium and Giardia oocysts in vegetable and water samples. The method uses a ball lens, white LED illumination, and Lugol's iodine staining to provide sufficient magnification and contrast. The analytical performance of the method was tested through spike recovery experiments, which showed comparable results to commercial brightfield and fluorescence microscope methods. The smartphone microscope system was able to detect Cryptosporidium in 42% of vegetable and 39% of water samples, and Giardia in 31% of vegetable and 33% of water samples. This method is a low-cost and easy-to-implement alternative for simultaneous detection of oocysts in vegetable and water samples in resource-limited settings.
Echinococcosis is a parasitic disease caused by larval stages of cestodes in the genus Echinococcus, which affects both human health and the agricultural and pastoral sectors, particularly in China where it is a major public health burden, especially in western regions. In 2018, data on echinococcosis was collected from 370 endemic counties in China to assess its prevalence and spatial distribution. The study found a total of 47,278 cases of echinococcosis, with a prevalence rate of 10.57 per 10,000 people. The data showed significant spatial positive autocorrelation and two aggregation modes: high-high and low-high. High-high clusters were mainly found in northern Tibet, western Qinghai, and Ganzi in the Tibetan Autonomous Region, and Sichuan. Low-high clusters were concentrated in Gamba, Kangma, and Yadong counties of Tibet. Spatial scanning analysis revealed two spatial clusters, with one including 90 counties in Tibet Autonomous Region, 22 in Qinghai, 11 in Sichuan, three in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, two in Yunnan, and one in Gansu. The second cluster consisted of six types in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region and the Qinghai, Gansu, and Sichuan provinces. The findings indicate a serious prevalence of human echinococcosis with significant spatial aggregation in China, particularly in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau. The study highlights the urgent need for joint strategies to strengthen prevention and control efforts for echinococcosis in China, especially in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau.Keywords: Echinococcosis, China, Prevalence, Spatial distribution, Tibet, Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, Public health, Parasitic disease, Zoonosis, Epidemiology, Geography, Tibetan Autonomous Region, Sichuan, Qinghai, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, Gansu, Yunnan, Inner Mongolia, Ningxia, Shaanxi, Agriculture, Pastoral sector, Human health, Animal health, Parasitic infection, Cestode, Larva, Echinococcus granulosus, Echinococcus multilocularis.
Network-based interventions have shown promise in controlling the spread of contagions in various settings, but their effectiveness is often limited by the availability of complete network data, which is not always feasible in practice. In this study, we investigated the performance of different immunization strategies under realistic conditions, where data is incomplete. Our results suggest that global strategies, such as degree immunization, are generally effective but can be outperformed by stochastic strategies, like acquaintance immunization, at high levels of missing data. The effectiveness of acquaintance immunization can be further improved by implementing a targeted data-recovery process. These findings highlight the importance of considering networks as complex systems and the risks of overestimating the accuracy of network data.Immunization strategies aim to prevent the spread of contagions by identifying and immunizing key nodes in a network. Degree immunization targets nodes with many connections, while betweenness immunization targets nodes that connect different communities. Stochastic strategies, like acquaintance immunization, rely on local network data to identify high degree nodes.In practice, however, obtaining complete network data is often unrealistic. Missing data can arise due to various reasons, including limited resources, respondent fatigue, and difficulty reaching hidden populations. The presence of missing data can affect the choice of immunization targets, potentially leading to suboptimal target sets.We investigated the effectiveness of degree and acquaintance immunization under different levels of missing data. Our results suggest that degree immunization is generally more effective than acquaintance immunization, but the latter becomes more effective at high levels of missing data. We also propose a variant of acquaintance immunization that leverages an ongoing survey-intervention process to improve with increasing levels of missing data.Our findings support the effectiveness of targeted immunization as a general practice and highlight the importance of considering networks as complex systems, rather than idealized mathematical objects. The results also underscore the need for further investigation into the impact of missing data on network-based interventions.Keywords: network-based interventions, immunization strategies, degree immunization, betweenness immunization, acquaintance immunization, missing data, complex systems, targeted immunization, epidemiology, contagions, networks, mathematical modeling, public health.
Extracellular recording is a widely used technique to study brain physiology and pathology. As the number of recording channels and their density increases, it is important to understand the information that can be gained from the additional channels and how to optimally use the new capabilities for monitoring the brain. In this study, we demonstrate that for any given distribution of electrodes, we can determine exactly what information about current sources in the brain can be recovered and what information is unobservable. We illustrate this concept using simplified examples and evoked potentials from the barrel cortex obtained with a Neuropixels probe and compatible model data. By conceptually separating the estimation space from the experimental setup, we can recover sources that are not accessible to standard methods.
A better understanding of the interactions between the four major human malaria parasites, Plasmodium falciparum (Pf), Plasmodium vivax (Pv), Plasmodium malariae (Pm), and Plasmodium ovale sp. (Po), is crucial for effective malaria control and elimination efforts. However, there is limited knowledge about the effects of multiple Plasmodium species co-infections on gametocyte production. In this study, researchers developed molecular assays for detecting asexual and gametocyte stages of Pf, Pv, Pm, and Po, which is the first description of molecular diagnostics for Pm and Po gametocytes. These assays were used in Papua New Guinea, where all four Plasmodium species co-circulate, to investigate species interactions. The results showed that the frequency of Pf-Pv co-infection for asexual parasites was higher than expected, and the same was true for gametocytes. The excess risk of co-infection was partially attributed to malaria infections clustering in some villages. Pf-Pv-Pm triple infections were also more frequent than expected, which could not be fully explained by infections clustering in highly exposed individuals. The study revealed a significant increase in Pm density when co-infected with Pf, and Pm gametocytemia also increased with Pf co-infection. Heterogeneity in exposure to mosquitoes is a key epidemiological driver of Plasmodium co-infection. Among the four co-circulating parasites, Pm benefited most from co-infection with other species. The findings of this study may help establish or improve existing surveillance systems to prevent human infection with Plasmodium parasites.
A new statistical method called IUSMMT (Intersection-union Survival Mixture-adjusted Mediation Test) has been developed to examine the existence of mediation effects in survival analysis, specifically when multiple DNA methylations act as exposures, gene expression is the mediator, and survival time is the outcome. IUSMMT uses an empirical three-component mixture null distribution to effectively test for mediation effects. The method was shown to be advantageous over existing methods through extensive simulation studies and was applied to ten types of cancer from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. The results identified multiple genes that exhibited mediating effects, most of which were cancer type-specific and showed full mediation from DNA methylation CpG sites to the survival risk of various cancers. IUSMMT is a powerful and effective alternative for survival mediation analysis, providing new insights into the functional role of DNA methylation and gene expression in cancer progression and prognosis, and demonstrating potential therapeutic targets for future clinical practice.
In the nematode Pristionchus pacificus, developmental plasticity allows the organism to adapt to different environments by producing two distinct mouth forms: predator and non-predator. While previous studies have identified some genes involved in this process, little was known about the genetic basis of this plasticity. In this study, researchers investigated the gene regulatory network controlling predatory vs. non-predatory dimorphism in P. pacificus and discovered that it consists of genes of extremely different age classes. They identified mutants in the conserved nuclear hormone receptor nhr-1, which disrupt mouth-form determination and result in animals with intermediate morphologies. In contrast, mutants in another conserved nuclear hormone receptor, nhr-40, display altered morph ratios but no intermediate morphology. Despite their divergent modes of control, NHR-1 and NHR-40 share transcriptional targets, which encode extracellular proteins that have no orthologs in Caenorhabditis elegans and result from lineage-specific expansions. These findings suggest that the origin of feeding plasticity involved novelty at the level of genes, cells, and behavior.Introduction:Developmental plasticity is the ability of organisms to generate different phenotypes in response to environmental input. This phenomenon has attracted attention due to its potential role in adaptation to environmental change and the origin of novel traits. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying plasticity have long remained elusive. The free-living nematode Pristionchus pacificus is a model organism for studying developmental plasticity, as it can develop two alternative mouth forms: eurystomatous (Eu) and stenostomatous (St). Eu morphs have a wide buccal cavity and two large teeth, enabling predation on other nematodes, while St morphs have a narrow buccal cavity and one tooth, limiting their diet to microbial sources. The wild-type P. pacificus strain PS312 preferentially forms Eu morphs in standard culture conditions but becomes predominantly St in liquid culture. Previous studies have identified several genes involved in regulating mouth-form plasticity, including eud-1, nag-1, nag-2, sult-1/seud-1, lsy-12, and mbd-2. However, only one transcription factor, the nuclear hormone receptor NHR-40, has been identified as a regulator of mouth-form fate, and no downstream targets have been identified. In this study, researchers used a suppressor screen to identify the conserved nuclear hormone receptor NHR-1 as a second transcription factor controlling mouth-form development. They found that nhr-1 mutants develop a morphology that combines features of the two morphs, and transcriptomic profiling revealed that NHR-40 and NHR-1 share transcriptional targets, which are expressed in a single pharyngeal gland cell, g1D. This cell has undergone extreme morphological remodeling in nematode evolution, which is associated with the emergence of teeth and predatory feeding. Interestingly, nhr-1 and nhr-40 are well conserved, whereas all target genes are rapidly evolving and have no orthologs in C. elegans. This study sheds light on the gene regulatory network controlling mouth-form plasticity, elucidates the evolutionary dynamics of underlying genes, and links morphological innovations with rapid gene evolution.Keywords: developmental plasticity, gene regulatory network, nematode, Pristionchus pacificus, transcription factor, nuclear hormone receptor, mouth-form determination, morphological innovations, rapid gene evolution.
Mitochondria, the powerhouse of the cell, play a crucial role in intracellular calcium (Ca2+) dynamics through calcium exchange, ATP generation, and production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Abnormal mitochondrial depolarization can lead to arrhythmogenic Ca2+ alternans in cardiac myocytes, but the underlying mechanisms are complex and difficult to study due to the intricate signaling pathways and calcium cycling between mitochondria and the cytosol. In this study, researchers used a newly developed computer model to investigate the mechanisms of Ca2+ alternans during mitochondrial depolarization. They found that elevated ROS in response to mitochondrial depolarization plays a critical role in promoting Ca2+ alternans. The redox effect of ROS on ryanodine receptors and sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase synergistically promote alternans. Upregulation of mitochondrial Ca2+ uniporter promotes Ca2+ alternans via Ca2+-dependent mitochondrial permeability transition pore opening. Oxidized Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II activation and ATP do not significantly contribute to the genesis of Ca2+ alternans acutely but play important roles in the long term through their effects on sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase activity. In conclusion, mitochondrial depolarization promotes Ca2+ alternans acutely via the redox effect of ROS and chronically by ATP reduction, while suppressing Ca2+ alternans chronically through oxidized Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II activation.Mitochondria are essential organelles that contribute to intracellular calcium dynamics directly and indirectly through calcium exchange, ATP generation, and production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Ca2+ alternans, a phenomenon linked to cardiac arrhythmias, is a complex phenomenon that can be influenced by mitochondrial depolarization. However, the mechanisms underlying this relationship are not well understood due to the intricate signaling pathways and calcium cycling between mitochondria and the cytosol. In this study, researchers used a newly developed computer model to investigate the mechanisms of Ca2+ alternans during mitochondrial depolarization. They found that elevated ROS in response to mitochondrial depolarization plays a critical role in promoting Ca2+ alternans. The redox effect of ROS on ryanodine receptors and sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase synergistically promote alternans. Upregulation of mitochondrial Ca2+ uniporter promotes Ca2+ alternans via Ca2+-dependent mitochondrial permeability transition pore opening. Oxidized Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II activation and ATP do not significantly contribute to the genesis of Ca2+ alternans acutely but play important roles in the long term through their effects on sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase activity. In conclusion, mitochondrial depolarization promotes Ca2+ alternans acutely via the redox effect of ROS and chronically by ATP reduction, while suppressing Ca2+ alternans chronically through oxidized Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II activation.Keywords: mitochondria, calcium cycling, intracellular signaling, cardiac myocytes, Ca2+ alternans, reactive oxygen species, ROS, computer modeling, physiology, biochemistry, cell biology.
Hemorrhagic Fever with Renal Syndrome (HFRS) is a zoonotic disease that causes high fever, hemorrhage, and renal damage, with China reporting over 90% of the world's cases. In this study, we used surveyed HFRS data and satellite imagery to investigate the relationship between urbanization, water bodies, and other factors on the spatiotemporal dynamics of HFRS in Xi'an City, Northwest China, from 2005 to 2018. Our results revealed an evident epidemic aggregation in the incidence of HFRS within Xi'an City, with significant fluctuations in the periodic time series. Rapid urbanization was found to greatly impact HFRS incidence in two different time phases, with urbanization affecting farmers to a lesser extent than non-farmers. The association of water bodies with HFRS incidence rate was higher within the radii of 696.15 m and 1575.39 m, representing significant thresholds. Our findings demonstrate that geomatics approaches can be used to investigate HFRS dynamic characteristics and support effective resource allocation for preventing epidemics.
 Helicobacter pylori, a bacterium that chronically infects half of the world's population, is known to cause various diseases, including cancer, in the stomach. The genetic diversity of H. pylori strains within a single host and its contribution to disease phenotypes is not well understood. In this study, researchers analyzed 39 clinical isolates from a single individual collected at two time points and from multiple gastric sites. During the six-year period, the individual progressed from a duodenal ulcer to gastric atrophy and loss of acid secretion. Whole genome sequence analysis identified 1,767 unique single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and a nucleotide substitution rate of 1.3x10-4 substitutions/site/year. Gene ontology analysis revealed an excess of nonsynonymous SNPs in cell envelope genes. The isolates clustered into subgroups with phenotypic differences in bacterial morphology, ability to induce inflammatory cytokines, and mouse colonization. The presence of subgroups with unique genetic and phenotypic properties suggests complex selective forces and multiple niches within the stomach during chronic infection. The findings highlight the importance of considering within-host diversity in understanding H. pylori pathogenesis and disease progression.
Soil-transmitted helminths (STH), including Trichuris trichiura, Ascaris lumbricoides, Ancylostoma duodenale, and Necator americanus, cause significant morbidity in children and women of reproductive age. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends preventive chemotherapy (PC) for at-risk populations to control these infections. Historically, Pemba Island in Zanzibar has had extremely high STH prevalence, with a survey in 1994 estimating nearly 100% infection. However, despite the introduction of PC in the island, the prevalence and intensity of STH infections remain high. A survey conducted in 2021 estimated a prevalence of 80% (95% CI 78.1-81.5) and found that more than 32% (95% CI 30.3-34.0) of children had infections of moderate or heavy intensity. PC has been conducted in Pemba for over 25 years, but its impact has been insufficient in controlling STH morbidity due to irregular administration, unfavorable climatic conditions, low sensitivity of T. trichiura to benzimidazoles, high population density, and poor sanitation. Improvement of sanitation coverage remains a key measure to permanently reduce the prevalence and intensity of STH. Possible improvements to the present PC approaches include ensuring high coverage in all schools, using mebendazole instead of albendazole due to its better activity on T. trichiura, and using a combination of ivermectin and mebendazole to increase anthelminthic efficacy on T. trichiura.
Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) is a mosquito-borne virus that has spread rapidly around the world, causing millions of infections. CHIKV is an enveloped virus that enters cells through clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Once inside the cell, the virus moves through the endosome, where membrane fusion occurs. In this study, researchers examined the role of the microtubule network during the early stages of CHIKV infection and found that microtubules direct the virus to a beneficial location for establishing infection or aid in nucleocapsid uncoating. Two distinct CHIKV intracellular trafficking patterns were observed prior to membrane hemifusion: half of the virions remained static during cell entry and fused in the cell periphery, while the other half showed fast-directed microtubule-dependent movement and predominantly fused in the perinuclear region of the cell. Disruption of the microtubule network reduced the number of infected cells and impaired the delivery of the viral genome to the cell cytosol. Overall, these findings suggest that microtubules play a crucial role in CHIKV infection by directing the virus to a favorable location for replication.
Bacteria use nucleotide second messengers to adapt to changing environmental conditions, and cyclic di-adenosine monophosphate (c-di-AMP) is an essential nucleotide second messenger in many bacteria. In the Gram-positive bacterium Bacillus subtilis, c-di-AMP is required for growth under certain conditions, such as on complex medium or in the absence of certain amino acids. However, the reasons for its essentiality are not well understood. In this study, the authors isolated suppressor mutants of a c-di-AMP-free strain of B. subtilis that allow growth under conditions where glutamate is toxic. These suppressor mutants contained pairs of mutations, some of which affected a novel glutamate transporter, AimA. The authors also found that some suppressor mutants could suppress glutamate toxicity by a combination of mutations that affect phospholipid biosynthesis and a specific gain-of-function mutation of a mechanosensitive channel, YfkC, resulting in the acquisition of a device for glutamate export. The authors suggest that the essentiality of c-di-AMP in B. subtilis is due to its global impact on different aspects of cellular physiology.Keywords: Bacillus subtilis, c-di-AMP, essential nucleotide, glutamate toxicity, suppressor mutants, phospholipid biosynthesis, mechanosensitive channel, YfkC, AimA.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a common virus that can cause lymphomas and epithelial cell cancers. While it is usually silent in B lymphocytes, it can lead to endemic Burkitt lymphoma and post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorders/lymphomas in immunocompromised hosts. In order to understand how EBV breaches cellular barriers to proliferation and potentially develop new treatments for EBV lymphomas and other cancers, researchers have been studying the effects of EBV on cellular DNA repair.Previously, researchers found that EBV activates cellular STAT3, which prevents the phosphorylation of Chk1, a key player in the intra-S phase cell-cycle checkpoint. This observation led researchers to investigate the consequences on DNA repair, as homologous recombination repair (HR), the most error-free form, requires phosphoChk1.Now, researchers report that the defect in Chk1 phosphorylation also curtails RAD51 nucleation and thereby, HR repair. The resulting reliance on error-prone microhomology-mediated end-joining (MMEJ) repair makes EBV-transformed cells susceptible to PARP inhibition and the accumulation of genome-wide deletions and insertions from synthesis-dependent MMEJ.Further analysis of transcriptomic and drug susceptibility data from hundreds of cancer lines revealed a STAT3-dependent gene set predictive of susceptibility of cancers to synthetic lethal PARP inhibition. These findings demonstrate how the tumor virus EBV reshapes cellular DNA repair, provide the first genome-wide evidence for insertions resulting from MMEJ in human cells, and expand the range of cancers (EBV-related and -unrelated) that are likely to respond to synthetic lethal inhibitors.In summary, this study reveals the mechanism by which EBV disrupts cellular DNA repair, making EBV-transformed cells susceptible to PARP inhibition and potentially other synthetic lethal inhibitors. These findings may lead to new strategies for preventing and treating EBV lymphomas and other cancers.Keywords: Epstein-Barr virus, lymphomas, Epithelial cell cancers, DNA repair, Homologous recombination repair, Microhomology-mediated end-joining, PARP inhibition, Synthetic lethal inhibitors, Cellular STAT3, Oncology, Cancer research.
 Buruli ulcer is a chronic, debilitating disease caused by Mycobacterium ulcerans, which affects over 33 countries, primarily in Africa, South America, and Western Pacific regions. The disease is difficult to diagnose due to its varying clinical presentations and unclear mode of transmission. Early diagnosis and treatment are crucial to minimize morbidity, costs, and prevent long-term disability. The gold standard for biological confirmation of clinical diagnosis is quantitative PCR targeting the insertion sequence IS2404 of M. ulcerans in cutaneous samples. However, the low confirmation rate of this test in endemic countries has led to the formation of the Buruli Ulcer Laboratories Network (BU-LABNET) in 2019, with the goal of harmonizing procedures and providing the same reagents to laboratories to improve diagnostic quality and increase PCR confirmation rates. The network aims to ensure accurate, reliable, and comparable data for Buruli ulcer diagnosis and management strategies. The success of this network could serve as a model for the integration of other neglected tropical diseases into the platform.
In this study, researchers used molecular dynamics simulations to investigate the role of palmitoylations and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) lipids in the co-localization of Cluster-of-Differentiation-44 protein (CD44) and cytoplasmic adaptors in specific membrane environments. CD44 plays a crucial role in cell adhesion and migration, and its localization in lipid raft domains is controlled by two different pathways: palmitoylation, which keeps CD44 in lipid raft domains and disables the linking to the cytoplasmic adaptor, and the presence of PIP2 lipids, which accelerates the formation of the CD44-adaptor complex. The researchers observed a delicate balance between the influence of palmitoylations and the presence of PIP2 lipids: while palmitoylations increase the affinity for raft domains, PIP2 lipids have the opposite effect. They also studied the association between CD44 and the membrane adaptor FERM in dependence of these factors and found that the presence of PIP2 lipids allows CD44 and FERM to associate in an experimentally observed binding mode, whereas the highly palmitoylated species shows no binding affinity. These findings provide insights into the sophisticated mechanism of how membrane translocation and peripheral protein association can be controlled by both protein modifications and membrane composition.
Fire ants, such as Solenopsis invicta, are known for their ability to form rafts, which are structures made entirely of their own bodies that help them survive during floods. These rafts have tether-like protrusions that facilitate exploration and escape from flooded environments. While similar protrusions have been observed in cytoskeletons and cellular aggregates, they are generally dependent on morphogens or external gradients. In this study, researchers used an ant-inspired agent-based model to demonstrate that protrusions in ant rafts may emerge spontaneously due to local interactions. The model consisted of a condensed structural network of agents representing the monolayer of interconnected worker ants, which floats on the water and gives ant rafts their form. The structural layer perpetually contracts, which is captured through the pairwise contraction of all neighboring structural agents. On top of the structural layer, a dispersed, on-lattice layer of motile agents represents free ants, which walk on top of the floating network. Local interactions occur between neighboring free ants within a certain radius, and the persistence length of freely active agents is tuned through a noise parameter. The results of the model demonstrate that phases of exploratory protrusion growth may be induced by increased ant activity, as characterized by a dimensionless parameter. These findings provide an example of how functional morphogenesis of a living system may emerge purely from local interactions at the constituent length scale, which could inspire the development of decentralized, autonomous active matter and swarm robotics.
In the Culex pipiens complex, there are two subspecies, Culex pipiens quinquefasciatus and Culex pipiens molestus, which exhibit significant differences in host seeking, blood feeding, and mating behavior. Understanding the molecular mechanisms behind these differences can provide valuable insights into the Culex pipiens complex olfactory sensory system and potentially lead to the discovery of new attractant or repellent compounds. In this study, we compared the olfactory gene expression and repertoire composition of non-blood-feeding (NBF) and post-blood-feeding (PBF) stages of Cx. quinquefasciatus and Cx. molestus. We identified several olfactory receptors (ORs) and odorant-binding proteins (OBPs) that were differentially expressed between the two subspecies. The roles of specific ORs in Cx. quinquefasciatus blood-feeding behaviors were evaluated using RNA interference. Our findings suggest that OR5 and OR65 might be species-specific genes that regulate the olfactory behaviors of Cx. quinquefasciatus and Cx. molestus, respectively. The RNA interference of OR5 and OR78 inhibited the blood-feeding behavior of Cx. quinquefasciatus, providing new targets for screening effective repellent compounds to control mosquito-borne diseases. Overall, this study provides new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the differences in host seeking and blood-feeding behaviors between Cx. quinquefasciatus and Cx. molestus, and highlights the potential of using olfactory genes as targets for developing effective mosquito repellents.
The hippocampus, a part of the brain, plays a crucial role in encoding spatial information through place cells. These neurons fire action potentials when an animal is in a specific location, known as place fields. The formation and stabilization of place fields is not well understood, and recent studies have raised questions about the role of synaptic plasticity in this process. In this study, a computational model of the hippocampal CA1 network is proposed to describe the formation, dynamics, and stabilization of place fields. The model suggests that somatic disinhibition is necessary for place field formation, but dendritic inhibition and synaptic plasticity are required for place field stabilization. The model also predicts that artificially induced dendritic events can shift place fields even after stabilization. The results of this study provide insights into the mechanisms underlying place field plasticity and suggest that different types of interneurons play essential roles in this process. The model also makes predictions that can be tested in future experiments.The hippocampus is a crucial brain structure involved in encoding spatial information through place cells. These neurons fire action potentials when an animal is in a specific location, known as place fields. The formation and stabilization of place fields are not well understood, and recent studies have raised questions about the role of synaptic plasticity in this process.The model suggests that somatic disinhibition is necessary for place field formation, but dendritic inhibition and synaptic plasticity are required for place field stabilization. The model also predicts that artificially induced dendritic events can shift place fields even after stabilization.The results of this study provide insights into the mechanisms underlying place field plasticity and suggest that different types of interneurons play essential roles in this process. The model also makes predictions that can be tested in future experiments.Keywords: hippocampus, place cells, synaptic plasticity, dendritic inhibition, interneurons, computational model, neural networks, neuroscience.
Molecular xenomonitoring (MX), which involves detecting Onchocerca volvulus DNA in the vector population, is a recommended tool for onchocerciasis surveillance in elimination settings. However, the sensitivity of MX for detecting onchocerciasis-positive communities and its relationship with human prevalence is not well understood. In a systematic review, we analyzed 15 studies reporting the prevalence of O. volvulus DNA in wild-caught Simulium spp. flies and corresponding human microfilaria (mf) prevalence. We found that MX detected positive flies in all communities with >1% mf prevalence, except for one study in the Venezuelan Amazonian focus. There was a significant relationship between mf prevalence and MX rate, with mf prevalence accounting for half of the variation in MX rate. MX is sensitive to communities with ongoing onchocerciasis transmission and can predict human mf prevalence, but further data is needed to fully understand this relationship. MX is a valuable tool for onchocerciasis surveillance, particularly in elimination settings, as it measures current infections and does not require invasive sampling. However, more research is needed to fully understand its utility in predicting human prevalence.Keywords: Onchocerciasis, Molecular xenomonitoring, Simulium spp., Onchocerca volvulus, Microfilaria, Vector surveillance, Elimination settings, Diagnostic accuracy, Sensitivity, Linear regression analysis.
A recent study investigated the role of three proteins, MASP-1, MASP-3, and MAp44, produced from the gene MASP1 in leprosy disease. These proteins are important for the lectin pathway of complement, which plays a role in the establishment and development of leprosy. The study found that patients with leprosy had lower levels of MASP-3 and MAp44 compared to healthy controls. Additionally, certain genetic variants of the MASP1 gene were associated with increased susceptibility to leprosy, highlighting the importance of lectin pathway regulation against pathogens that exploit phagocytosis to parasitize host macrophages.
Nongenetic phenotypic variation, which arises from differences in gene expression or other cellular processes, can either slow down or speed up the rate of adaptive evolution. In this study, researchers used a model of Escherichia coli growth on two alternative carbon sources, glucose and acetate, to show that nongenetic variation can speed up evolution in environments where carbon sources change over time. In such environments, populations experience a bottleneck when the environment shifts from the superior carbon source to the inferior one. The ability of noise in the expression of a transcription factor to increase the probability that cells start growing on the inferior carbon source can decrease the severity of the bottleneck and increase population fitness. Additionally, noise can enhance the fitness effects of a beneficial allele that increases the fraction of a population initiating growth on acetate, protect it from extinction, and accelerate its spread. This principle of adaptation-enhancing through noise is particularly relevant in environments that fluctuate periodically, which are common in nature. The findings of this study have implications for understanding the role of nongenetic variation in adaptive evolution in various organisms and environments.Keywords: nongenetic phenotypic variation, adaptive evolution, Escherichia coli, carbon sources, gene expression, transcription factor, population bottleneck, fitness, evolutionary adaptation.
A team of researchers have used a novel RNA-protein interaction detection assay to identify proteins that directly or indirectly bind to dengue viral genomes in infected mosquito cells. Two mosquito proteins, Sec61A1 and Loquacious (Loqs), were found to be in complex with the viral RNA. Depletion analysis showed that both Sec61A1 and Loqs have pro-viral functions in the dengue viral infectious cycle. Co-localization and pull-down assays demonstrated that Loqs interacts with viral protein NS3 and both full-length and subgenomic viral RNAs. While Loqs coats the entire positive-stranded viral RNA, it binds selectively to the 3’ end of the negative-strand of the viral genome. The absence of Loqs did not affect translation or turnover of the viral RNA but modulated viral replication. Loqs also displayed pro-viral functions for several flaviviruses in infected mosquito cells, suggesting a conserved role for Loqs in flavivirus-infected mosquito cells. This study provides important insights into the interactions between the dengue virus and its mosquito host, which is crucial for understanding the virus's life cycle and potential targets for intervention strategies.Introduction:Dengue virus (DENV) is a single-stranded RNA virus that infects both mosquito and mammalian hosts. While much is known about virus-host interactions that regulate viral gene expression in mammalian hosts, less is known about the interactions that involve inhibition, subversion, or avoidance strategies in the mosquito host. In this study, researchers used a novel RNA-Protein interaction detection assay to identify proteins that directly or indirectly bind to dengue viral genomes in infected mosquito cells.Keywords: dengue virus, mosquito, RNA-protein interactions, pro-viral functions, Loquacious, Sec61A1, flaviviruses.
Temporal environmental variations play a crucial role in shaping biodiversity by influencing the coexistence of competing species. In this study, we explored the effects of temporal variations on two-species and diverse communities, considering both periodic and stochastic environmental fluctuations and the dynamics of global and local competition. In two-species communities, we found that stochastic variations yield shorter persistence times due to rare sequences of bad years, while periodic variations increase both species richness and evenness by facilitating the storage effect. In diverse communities, the number of temporal niches plays a significant role. When this number is large, the same trends hold: the storage effect and periodic variations increase both species richness and evenness. However, when the number of temporal niches is small, global competition decreases species richness and evenness by focusing competition to specific periods, increasing effective fitness differences. Our findings suggest that seasonal cycles, which typically involve a limited number of different states, may play a major role in stabilizing diverse communities if stochastic variations offer a larger number of temporal niches. Overall, this study provides insights into the importance of considering the interaction between environmental variations and competition dynamics in understanding biodiversity patterns.
Functional non-coding RNAs (fncRNAs) are important regulators of gene expression, genome stability, and human health. Understanding the functional determinants of these RNAs is crucial for their potential application in disease treatment. In this study, we applied the phylogenetic Evolutionary Trace (ET) paradigm, which has been successful in identifying functional residues in proteins, to fncRNAs. We found that the top-ranked nucleotides in fncRNAs cluster in secondary and tertiary structures and map to functional regions such as catalysis, binding sites, post-transcriptional modification, and deleterious mutations. The quantitative quality of these clusters correlates with the identification of functional regions, leading to improved functional site predictions. This approach can broadly identify functional determinants in RNA sequences and functional sites in RNA structures, revealing details on the molecular functions of fncRNAs. We applied this method to the ribosome and identified several previously undocumented and potentially functional ET nucleotide clusters. This work is relevant to studies of structure-function in RNA and shows that evolutionary constraints among sequence, structure, and function are similar in structured RNA and proteins. The RNA ET method is available as part of the ET command-line package and will be available as a web-server.
In the field of epidemiology, identifying the source of an epidemic is a crucial issue for controlling its spread. In this study, we approach the source detection problem as one of identifying the relevant component in a multivariate Gaussian mixture model. We focus on cholera and other waterborne diseases and use human mobility networks within a stochastic, spatially-explicit epidemiological model for waterborne disease to calibrate the parameters. Our method, which adopts a Bayesian perspective, only requires first-arrival times of the epidemic by putative observers and can provide estimates in the form of individual locations or regions. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach using the 2000-2002 cholera outbreak in the KwaZulu-Natal province of South Africa. Our method integrates a sensor-based approach with a stochastic differential equation model for waterborne disease and provides measures of uncertainty quantification and the formal use of prior information. By incorporating human mobility networks, we can better understand, predict, and possibly control the propagation of an epidemic in a population, as human mobility is a key driver of the spreading of infectious diseases. Our approach demonstrates significant improvement over the use of a generic sensor-based source detection approach alone in the context of the 2000-2002 cholera outbreak in the KwaZulu-Natal province. Our method has been implemented in the NetOrigin package in R.Keywords: epidemiology, cholera, waterborne diseases, Gaussian mixture model, human mobility, Bayesian approach, source detection, stochastic differential equation, uncertainty quantification, prior information.
Recent advances in multiplex imaging techniques have enabled the analysis of multiple markers within a single tissue sample, but the limited space on the panel and long imaging acquisition time necessitate careful marker selection. In this study, we propose computational approaches to determine the shared information between markers and select an optimally reduced panel that retains the maximum amount of information with the fewest markers. We evaluated several panel selection methods using breast cancer tissue microarray datasets and cyclic immunofluorescence as a proof of concept. Our results showed that all methods performed well, allowing for the reconstruction of full panel images and information using only 18 of 25 markers (72% of the original panel size). The correlation-based selection methods achieved the best single-cell marker mean intensity predictions, with a Spearman correlation of 0.90 with the reduced panel. By using these methods, researchers can design more efficient multiplex imaging panels that maximize information retention while minimizing the number of markers, which is crucial for reducing costs and tissue loss.
Leptospirosis is a bacterial disease that can lead to acute kidney injury and chronic kidney disease (CKD). In this study, researchers investigated the relationship between leptospirosis and CKD using a hamster model. They found that leptospires, the bacteria responsible for leptospirosis, spread from the renal interstitium during the acute phase and cause patchy tubular atrophy in the chronic phase, leading to CKD. The degree of tubular atrophy in the kidney sections correlated with the serum creatinine level in the chronic phase. The findings suggest that the distribution of leptospires in the kidney during the acute phase may affect the extent of tubular atrophy and subsequent CKD. The study provides new insights into the mechanisms of leptospirosis-induced kidney damage and has implications for understanding the development of CKD in humans.The researchers infected hamsters with Leptospira interrogans serovar Manilae and observed the dynamics of leptospires and histopathological changes in the kidneys during the acute and chronic phases. They found that leptospires were distributed in the renal interstitium during the early acute phase and spread continuously into the surrounding interstitium. In the chronic phase, the kidneys of surviving hamsters showed patchy lesions of atrophic tubules, a finding of chronic tubulointerstitial nephritis. The degree of atrophic tubules in kidney sections correlated with the serum creatinine level in the chronic phase.The study suggests that the distribution of leptospires in the kidney during the acute phase may influence the extent of tubular atrophy and subsequent CKD. The findings provide new insights into the mechanisms of leptospirosis-induced kidney damage and have implications for understanding the development of CKD in humans. The study also highlights the importance of understanding the dynamics of leptospires in the kidney during the acute phase to predict the outcome of leptospirosis and the risk of developing CKD.Keywords: Leptospirosis, kidney disease, chronic kidney disease, hamster model, tubulointerstitial nephritis, atrophic tubules, serum creatinine, leptospires, renal function, antibody titers.
Talaromycosis, caused by the fungus Talaromyces marneffei, is a serious regional disease endemic in Southeast Asia, particularly in Guangxi, China, where it causes significant in-hospital mortality in HIV-infected individuals. The factors influencing in-hospital death in HIV/AIDS patients with T. marneffei infection are not fully understood. In this study, machine learning techniques were used to develop a predictive model to identify relevant prognostic factors and reduce in-hospital mortality. A total of 1927 HIV/AIDS patients with T. marneffei infection were enrolled from January 2012 to June 2019. Clinical features were used to train four machine learning models (logistic regression, XGBoost, KNN, and SVM) to predict treatment outcomes. The XGBoost model exhibited the best performance, with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) of 0.90, 0.69 sensitivity, and 0.96 specificity. Septic shock and respiratory failure were the most important predictive features, followed by uric acid, urea, platelets, and the AST/ALT ratios. The XGBoost machine learning model is a good predictor of the hospitalization outcome of HIV/AIDS patients with T. marneffei infection and may have potential applications in mortality prediction and high-risk factor identification.
Toxocariasis, caused by the parasitic roundworm Toxocara canis and Toxocara cati, is a neglected zoonotic disease that disproportionately affects socioeconomically disadvantaged groups in the United States. In New York City, Toxocara eggs were found to be widespread in public spaces, with the highest contamination rate in the Bronx (66.7%). The Bronx also had the highest egg burden and the highest percentage of infective eggs. Feral or untreated cats in New York City were identified as a significant source of environmental contamination. Human toxocariasis can lead to neurological and cognitive deficits, developmental delays, and blindness. The disease is underdiagnosed due to its covert nature and the lack of medical knowledge about its clinical spectrum. To address this health disparity, further public health interventions are needed to reduce environmental Toxocara contamination.
Scorpions in the Tityus genus, specifically Tityus trivittatus, are a public health concern in Tropical America, with a significant population found in urban areas of eastern Paraguay causing severe envenomation, particularly in children. This study investigated the lethality, composition, antigenicity, and enzymatic activity of venom from this population. The results showed that the venom is potently toxic, with a lethal dose (LD50) around 1.19 mg/kg. Neutralization was complete with Brazilian anti-T. serrulatus antivenom but only partial with Argentinean anti-T. trivittatus antivenom. Venom analysis revealed antigenic differences between the Argentinean and Paraguayan populations, as well as variations in venom proteins and sodium channel toxins. Proteolytic activity and peptide identification through nESI-MS/MS suggested the presence of population-specific proteases. A molecular phylogeny of mitochondrial COI sequences indicated significant genetic differentiation between the populations, suggesting they are distinct cryptic species. Overall, this study highlights the need for further research on the venom and taxonomic diversity of T. trivittatus populations in southern South America.Introduction:Envenoming by scorpions in the genus Tityus is a public health problem in Tropical America, with Tityus trivittatus being one of the most medically significant species. This species is known to occur from southwest Brazil to central-northern and eastern Argentina. In this study, we investigated the lethality, composition, antigenicity, and enzymatic activity of venom from a T. trivittatus population found in urban areas of eastern Paraguay, where it has caused serious envenomation in children.T. trivittatus venoms contain low molecular mass toxins that affect the gating mechanism of various voltage-sensitive ion channels, leading to high mortality rates in children under 10 years of age. Rapid tissue distribution of these toxins results in high mortality rates and the need for prompt treatment with specific antivenoms and intensive cardio-respiratory support.While venom from Argentinean populations of T. trivittatus has been thoroughly studied, further investigation is needed due to its predicted changing distribution, the reported divergence in venom composition and action even among closely related Tityus species, and the medical importance of T. trivittatus outside Argentina. In this contribution, we studied the lethality, neutralization by available antivenoms, proteolytic activity, and molecular mass fingerprinting of venom from an urban T. trivittatus population from Paraguay.Results:The results of this study indicate that the Paraguayan T. trivittatus population produces a potently toxic venom, with an LD50 around 1.19 mg/kg. Neutralization was complete with Brazilian anti-T. serrulatus antivenom but only partial with Argentinean anti-T. trivittatus antivenom. Venom competitive solid-phase enzyme immunoassays and immunoblotting from Argentinean and Paraguayan T. trivittatus populations indicated antigenic differences. SDS-PAGE showed variations in type and relative amounts of venom proteins between T. trivitattus samples from Argentina and Paraguay. MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry indicated that while some sodium channel toxins are shared, including β-toxin Tt1g, others are population-specific. Proteolytic activity by zymography and peptide identification through nESI-MS/MS also point to the presence of population-specific proteases. A time-calibrated molecular phylogeny of mitochondrial COI sequences revealed a significant (8.14%) genetic differentiation between the Argentinean and Paraguayan populations, which appeared to have diverged between the mid Miocene and early Pliocene.Conclusion:Our study reveals significant toxinological and genetic divergence between the Paraguayan and Argentinean T. trivittatus populations, indicating they probably comprise unique cryptic species. Further research is needed to fully understand the venom and taxonomic diversity of T. trivittatus populations in southern South America.Keywords: Tityus trivittatus, scorpions, venom, toxins, antivenom, Argentina, Paraguay, molecular mass, proteolytic activity, phylogeny
Bats rely on acoustic signals to locate and identify flowers for pollination. Some bat-pollinated flowers have developed specialized acoustic adaptations, such as concave shapes that act as acoustic reflectors. However, it is unclear how common these adaptations are among bat-pollinated flowers or how they compare to flowers pollinated by other means. In this study, researchers analyzed the acoustic properties of 12 different plant species, six of which were bat-pollinated and six were insect or hummingbird-pollinated. They recorded and analyzed the spectrograms of 32,320 flower echoes and found that bat-pollinated flowers have significantly higher echo target strength, independent of their size, and lower variance in morphological features. The researchers also developed a convolutional neural network to classify the flowers based on their echoes and achieved high accuracy, with bat-pollinated flowers being easier to classify due to their lower morphological variance. These findings suggest that acoustic adaptations are more common in bat-pollinated flowers than previously thought and that they provide important advantages for bat pollinators.
 Schistosomiasis, a parasitic disease caused by Schistosoma worms, is a major public health concern, particularly in China where it is endemic. Effective control of the disease requires accurate identification of snail habitats, which is traditionally done through labor-intensive manual searches in the field. However, this approach is time-consuming, costly, and may result in misclassification of potential snail habitats. In this study, researchers collected snail data and 36 environmental variables from two types of snail habitats in Anhui Province, China, and used twelve different models to identify high-risk areas for potential snail habitats. The presence-absence models performed better than those based on presence-only, but machine-learning approaches, especially the random forest method, were the most effective with all indices above 0.90. The most important variable for lake/marshland habitats was distance to the nearest river, while climatic variables were more important for hilly areas. The predicted high-risk areas for potential snail habitats of the lake/marshland type were mainly along the Yangtze River, while those of the hilly type were dispersed in areas south of the Yangtze River. This study provides the first comprehensive risk profile of potential snail habitats, which can improve efficiency and accuracy of snail control and help allocate limited health resources more effectively.
Giardia duodenalis, the causative agent of giardiasis, is a major diarrheal disease in humans worldwide. The treatment of giardiasis relies mainly on metronidazole (MTZ) and albendazole (ABZ), but the emergence of ABZ resistance in this parasite has led researchers to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying this phenomenon. In this study, researchers identified flavohemoglobin (gFlHb) as the enzyme responsible for ABZ metabolism and its role in ABZ resistance in G. duodenalis. They found that gFlHb interacts favorably with ABZ, ABZSO, and ABZSOO, and enhances its NADH oxidase activity, which indirectly oxidizes ABZ into ABZSO. ABZSO production was also observed when using xanthine oxidase. Interestingly, gFlHb mRNA expression is lower in ABZ-resistant clones, and overexpressing gFlHb in these clones increased their susceptibility to ABZ. These findings suggest that gFlHb plays a role in ABZ conversion to its sulfoxide and that gFlHb down-regulation acts as a passive pharmacokinetic mechanism of resistance in this parasite.
Sulfur is an essential element for all forms of life, but how cells adapt to varying sulfur availability is not well understood. In the case of yeast, organosulfur auxotrophy caused by the deletion of the homocysteine synthase Met17p can be overcome when cells are grown at high density. By combining self-establishing metabolically cooperating (SeMeCo) communities with proteomic, genetic, and biochemical approaches, researchers discovered an uncharacterized gene product, YLL058Wp, which they named Hydrogen Sulfide Utilizing-1 (HSU1). Hsu1p acts as a homocysteine synthase and allows cells to substitute for Met17p by reassimilating hydrosulfide ions leaked from met17Δ cells into O-acetyl-homoserine and forming homocysteine. This study shows that cells can cooperate to achieve sulfur fixation, indicating that the collective properties of microbial communities can expand their basic metabolic capacity to overcome sulfur limitation.Introduction:Sulfur is a fundamental element for all forms of life, and its assimilation, incorporation, and metabolism are crucial processes. However, how cells adapt to varying sulfur availability is not well understood. The budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a key model organism for the discovery and characterization of gene function in eukaryotes, and its response to carbon and nitrogen sources has been extensively studied. However, the broader genetic network of sulfur metabolism remains less well understood. Inorganic sulfur is primarily assimilated in the form of sulfate, which is reduced to sulfide. Homocysteine synthase, encoded by the MET17 gene, catalyzes the fixation of inorganic sulfide with O-acetylhomoserine to form homocysteine. Deletion of MET17 renders cells auxotrophic for organosulfur compounds, and these alleles have been widely used as auxotrophic markers for genetic experiments. However, met17Δ yeast exhibits an atypical growth phenotype, and cells can overcome the auxotrophy under specific conditions. This phenomenon, known as organosulfur leakage, occurs when met17Δ cells are grown as thick patches and is not a species-specific phenomenon. Among the possible explanations for this paradoxical phenotype, Cost and Boeke suggested that met17Δ could leak and share organosulfur metabolites between cells once they reach a critical cell density. In this study, we investigated the biochemical basis of the met17Δ phenotype and discovered a previously overlooked metabolic bypass that explains the growth of met17Δ in the absence of organosulfur compounds. We found that an uncharacterized protein, which we named Hydrogen Sulfide Utilizing-1 (Hsu1p), encodes a metabolic enzyme that directly assimilates sulfur from hydrogen sulfide, thereby enabling cell growth by resolving methionine auxotrophy once critical concentrations of sulfide are leaked from met17Δ cells. We provide evidence that Hsu1p functions as a homocysteine synthase, performing the fixation of inorganic sulfide in place of Met17p, and generating the homocysteine required for methionine and cysteine biosynthesis.Keywords: sulfates, methionine, amino acids, chemistry, proteins, organisms, enzyme chemistry, cysteine, eukaryota, physical sciences, enzyme metabolism, biochemistry, sulfur containing amino acids, fungi, organic compounds, sulfides, sulfur, biology and life sciences, salts, yeast, chemical compounds, chemical elements, organic chemistry, enzymology, enzymes.
Juvenile hormone (JH) is a hormone that plays a crucial role in insect development, particularly in the process of vitellogenesis, which is essential for egg production. In the follicular epithelium, JH regulates the opening of a channel called patency, which allows for the transport of yolk proteins to reach the oocytes. However, the mechanisms underlying patency opening are not well understood. In this study, researchers used the migratory locust as a model system and found that JH-regulated remodeling of zonula adherens (ZA), a belt-like adherens junction that maintains physical linking between follicle cells, is responsible for the opening of patency. JH triggered a signaling cascade that included G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), small GTPase Cdc42, and atypical Protein kinase C (aPKC), leading to the phosphorylation of Par3, a critical scaffold protein of ZA. This phosphorylation caused Par3 to disassociate from β-Catenin, the cytoplasmic partner of ZA core component E-Cadherin, resulting in ZA disassembly at tricellular contacts and patency enlargement. This study provides new insight into how JH stimulates insect vitellogenesis and egg production by inducing the opening of the paracellular route for vitellogenin transport across the follicular epithelium barrier.
Alcoholic-related liver disease (ALD) is a major cause of liver-related deaths, with more than half of all such deaths being attributed to this condition. ALD can progress from fatty liver and alcohol-related steatohepatitis to alcoholic liver fibrosis (ALF) and eventually to alcohol-related liver cirrhosis (ALC). However, it is difficult to identify patients with early-stage ALD as they are often asymptomatic. This study aimed to discover relevant upstream diagnoses that could help understand the development of ALD and meaningful downstream diagnoses that represent its progression to liver failure. The study used data from the Danish health registries covering the entire population of Denmark between 1996 and 2014 to identify patients likely to develop ALF or ALC. The results showed that ALC is the most common form of ALD in the registry data and that ALC patients have a strong over-representation of diagnoses associated with liver dysfunction. A small number of patients diagnosed with ALF were identified, who appeared to be much less sick than those with ALC. Machine learning models trained on the set of ALC patients achieved high performance for data classification, but their performance dropped significantly when tested on the small set of ALF patients. The findings highlight the potential of this approach to uncover knowledge related to ALD and identify at-risk patients with ALF and early cirrhosis before they reach the more advanced stage with complications to ALC. The study identified five main groups of comorbidities related to alcohol-overuse, under/mal-nutrition, liver dysfunction, trauma and lifestyle, and upper intestinal or respiratory mucosal diseases. Some of these comorbidities could be general predictors of ALD.
During development, neurons often alter their dendrite arbors through the elimination and subsequent regeneration of dendritic branches. The mechanisms underlying this developmentally programmed dendrite regeneration and whether it shares common machinery with injury-induced regeneration are largely unknown. In this study, researchers focused on Drosophila class IV dendrite arborization (C4da) sensory neurons, which regenerate adult-specific dendrites after eliminating larval dendrites during metamorphosis. They found that the microRNA miR-87 is a critical regulator of dendrite regeneration in Drosophila. Specifically, miR-87 knockout impairs dendrite regeneration after developmentally-programmed pruning, while miR-87 overexpression in C4da neurons leads to precocious initiation of dendrite regeneration. The researchers also found that the transcriptional repressor Tramtrack69 (Ttk69) is a functional target for miR-87-mediated repression, as ttk69 expression is increased in miR-87 knockout neurons and reducing ttk69 expression restores dendrite regeneration to mutants lacking miR-87 function. Furthermore, miR-87 is required for dendrite regeneration after acute injury in the larval stage, providing a mechanistic link between developmentally programmed and injury-induced dendrite regeneration. These findings suggest that miR-87 promotes dendrite regrowth during regeneration at least in part through suppressing Ttk69 in Drosophila sensory neurons, and that developmental and injury-induced dendrite regeneration share a common intrinsic mechanism to reactivate dendrite growth.
γδ T cells, specifically Vγ9Vδ2 T cells, play a crucial role in the immune response to malaria. These cells recognize malaria-derived phosphoantigens through a unique mechanism, without the need for antigen processing or presentation. Vδ2 T cells have been shown to inhibit parasite replication in vitro and are associated with protection from malaria parasitemia in vivo. However, chronic malaria exposure can lead to a decline in Vδ2 T cells, both in frequency and malaria-responsiveness. In this study, we investigated the functional role of CD16, a Fc receptor, on Vδ2 T cells in the immune response to malaria. We found that CD16+ Vδ2 T cells possess more cytolytic potential than their CD16- counterparts and exhibit characteristics of mature NK cells. Furthermore, we demonstrated that Vδ2 T cells from heavily malaria-exposed individuals are able to respond to opsonized parasite antigens through CD16, representing a second, distinct pathway by which Vδ2 T cells may contribute to anti-parasite effector functions. This response was independent of TCR engagement. Our results suggest that Vδ2 T cells in heavily malaria-exposed individuals retain the capacity for antimalarial effector functions and demonstrate their activation by opsonizing antibodies, highlighting the importance of cooperation between the cellular and humoral arms of the immune system.
DEER-PREdict is a new software tool designed to predict Double Electron-Electron Resonance (DEER) distance distributions and Paramagnetic Relaxation Enhancement (PRE) rates from ensembles of protein conformations. This software is particularly useful for intrinsically disordered and multidomain proteins, which require descriptions based on multiple conformations. DEER-PREdict uses an established rotamer library approach to describe the paramagnetic probes bound covalently to the protein, and is designed to operate efficiently on large conformational ensembles, such as those generated by molecular dynamics simulations. The software has been shown to accurately predict DEER and PRE observables for HIV-1 protease, T4 Lysozyme, and Acyl-CoA-binding protein. DEER-PREdict is open source and available for free on GitHub and PyPI. This software is essential for the validation or refinement of molecular models and the interpretation of experimental data in the field of structural biology.
Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) is a leading cause of diarrhea in children under 5 years old in low-middle income countries (LMICs), but the lack of point-of-care diagnostic tools for routine ETEC diagnosis limits our understanding of its actual burden and epidemiology in endemic areas. In this study, we evaluated the performance of a novel Rapid LAMP based Diagnostic Test (RLDT) for detecting ETEC in stool as a potential point-of-care diagnostic assay in a resource-limited setting. We conducted a cross-sectional study of 324 stool samples from children under 5 with moderate to severe diarrhea (MSD) in Zambia between November 2012 and September 2013. The RLDT targets three ETEC toxin genes (LT, STh, and STp) and was compared to quantitative PCR (qPCR) as the gold standard. The overall prevalence of ETEC was 19.8% by qPCR and 19.4% by RLDT. The highest prevalence was in children between 12 to 59 months old at 22%. The sensitivity and specificity of RLDT compared to qPCR were 90.7% and 97.5% for LT, 85.2% and 99.3% for STh, and 100% and 99.7% for STp, respectively. These results suggest that RLDT is a sensitive and specific tool for ETEC detection, and its rapid and simple nature makes it an attractive option for point-of-care testing in resource-limited settings.
Longitudinal studies, which involve repeated measurements over time, are an essential type of experimental design in biomedical research, especially in the field of "omics" sciences such as genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics. These studies generate complex multivariate data, and analyzing such data requires considering both the longitudinal intervention structure and multivariate nature. The ASCA+ framework, which combines general linear models with principal component analysis, has been used to separate and visualize the multivariate effects of different experimental factors. However, this methodology has not been fully developed for more complex longitudinal intervention studies, which may be unbalanced, involve randomized interventions, and have substantial missing data. In this study, we introduce a new methodology, repeated measures ASCA+ (RM-ASCA+), which can be used to model metabolic changes over time and compare metabolic changes between groups in both randomized and non-randomized intervention studies. We discuss tools for visualization and model validation, and this approach can facilitate easier interpretation of data from longitudinal clinical trials with multivariate outcomes.
In this study, we present a microscopic model for the progression of disease phenotypes using a large population of reaction networks and their stochastic dynamics. We define the healthy state as a state of maximum objective function, which is the sum of mutual information between a subset of signal variables and response variables. A disease phenotype is defined by two parameters controlling the rate of mutations in reactions and the rate of accepting mutations that reduce the objective function. Our model can provide the time dependence of the sign probabilities given a disease phenotype, allowing us to obtain the accuracy of diagnosis as a function of time and suggest an optimal time for medical intervention. The model is useful for dynamical diagnostic problems and can estimate the likelihood of a disease hypothesis given the temporal evolution of the signs.The study of disease development can be approached at different spatiotemporal resolutions, from molecular pathology to clinical data acquisition and monitoring. Here, we focus on a simple model of biochemical reactions to investigate disease dynamics and its consequences for disease diagnosis. We start from a healthy reaction network that maximizes the mutual information between a subset of signal and response variables. We then introduce defects in the system and run a reverse simulated annealing algorithm to observe the system's response. The system dynamics are controlled by the rates of introducing defects and the rate of accepting a decrease in the objective function. Our aim is to provide a microscopic model of time-dependent signs and diseases that can be used for diagnosis from the history or dynamics of the observed signs and model disease-disease interactions more explicitly.In the following sections, we define the model and give the main equations, present the stochastic model of disease evolution, and discuss the results of numerical simulations for a small reaction network. The concluding remarks are given in the discussion.Keywords: reaction networks, chemistry, probability theory, simulation and modeling, evolutionary computation, diagnostic medicine, mutual information, disease dynamics, disease-disease interactions, stochastic model, simulated annealing, time-dependent signs and diseases, disease diagnosis, optimal intervention, disease phenotypes, objective function, reaction networks, microscopic model, disease development, disease-disease interactions, probabilistic model, signs and diseases, diagnostic performance, tradeoff, medical intervention, disease hypothesis, temporal evolution, disease progression, disease-disease interactions, disease dynamics, disease diagnosis, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-disease interactions, disease-
A mathematical model was developed to understand the relationship between Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) viral kinetics in the upper respiratory tract and aerosols, and new transmissions in golden hamsters. The study found that infectious virus shedding early in infection correlates with transmission events, while infectious virus diminishes late in the infection. High viral RNA levels late in the infection are a poor indicator of transmission. The viral infectiousness increases in a density-dependent manner with viral RNA, and the relative ratio is time-dependent. These findings can be useful for designing interventions to prevent the spread of SARS-CoV-2.SARS-CoV-2 transmission is dependent on the amount of infectious particles present in the environment surrounding a susceptible host or the proximity between the susceptible and infectious host. Previous studies have reported the presence of SARS-CoV-2 RNA in contaminated environmental surfaces and aerosols, and these particles can remain infectious for up to three hours. Once an infection is established, the dynamics of SARS-CoV-2 in the upper respiratory tract (URT) are dictated by the interplay between the virus's fitness and host immune responses. The total RNA to infectious virus ratio changes over the course of the infection, varying between 10^3:1 and 10^6:1 RNA to plaque-forming units (PFU).Within-host mathematical models have been developed for SARS-CoV-2 infections, dividing total viral titers into infectious and non-infectious particles, fitting their sum to total RNA values measured by PCR, and using the results to determine the mechanisms of viral expansion and loss. However, most studies assume a constant total RNA to infectious virus ratio in the URT. This study expanded a within-host mathematical model to include the dynamics of viral RNA and infectious virus titers in both URT and aerosols, validated the models against two URT and one aerosol inoculation study in golden hamsters, and used the models to determine the relationship between infectious virus and total RNA in both environments. The results can guide interventions to prevent the spread of SARS-CoV-2.
Quantifying the similarity between two groups, sets, or communities is an essential problem in various fields, including genetics, ecology, and computer science. When dealing with complete samples, the overlap between two communities can be determined by counting the number of shared elements. However, when populations are only partially observed due to subsampling or stochastic sampling, the community overlap problem becomes one of inference. In ecology, the relationship between the diversity in one community and another is called β-diversity, and several indices have been developed to quantify it. However, these indices, such as the Jaccard and Sorenson-Dice indices, have been shown to be biased when community sampling is incomplete and provide no measure of statistical uncertainty.To address these issues, improvements have been made in the quantification of β-diversity by recognizing that the measurement of β-diversity fundamentally relies on counting the shared elements in the context of the numbers of elements in each community separately. Another approach has been to work with species abundance data instead of binary presence-absence measurements. A third approach has been to place observations of both abundance and presence-absence in the context of a probabilistic sampling process, allowing for the appropriate quantification of uncertainty through confidence intervals or credible intervals.A recent Bayesian approach to β-diversity estimation provides unbiased estimates of the overlap between two stochastically sampled communities but assumes that the two original community sizes are known a priori. However, in practice, the overall community sizes may be unknown or vary widely, making this model misspecified.To address this problem, we introduce a Bayesian model for β-diversity calculations that produces joint estimates of the number of shared elements and the sizes of each of the two communities in a Bayesian statistical framework. Posterior samples of these quantities offer solutions to the issues identified above by providing unbiased central estimates, the quantification of uncertainty via credible intervals, and the construction of Bayesian versions of the canonical Jaccard and Sorenson-Dice coefficients.In this study, we present the problem in the context of estimating the genetic similarity between pairs of malaria parasites from the species Plasmodium falciparum, the most virulent of the human malaria parasites. Our goal is to estimate the number of shared genetic elements and to simultaneously estimate the sizes of each of the two parasite populations being compared.Keywords: community ecology, malaria, parasitic diseases, Plasmodium falciparum, β-diversity, Jaccard index, Sorenson-Dice coefficient, Bayesian statistics, statistical inference, population genetics, genetic similarity, malarial parasites.
A systematic review and meta-analysis were conducted to evaluate the diagnostic validity of Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) and Rapid Diagnostic Tests (RDT) for Chagas Disease (CD). Forty-three studies were included in the analysis, with 27 assessing ELISA tests, 14 assessing RDTs, and 2 assessing both. The studies were evaluated for risk of bias and applicability using the QUADAS-2 tool. The overall sensitivity of ELISA tests was 99% (95% CI: 98-99) and specificity was 98% (95% CI: 97-99), while RDTs had a sensitivity of 95% (95% CI: 94-97) and specificity of 97% (95% CI: 96-98). Deeks' test showed asymmetry on the ELISA assays. Both ELISA and RDT tests have high validity for diagnosing chronic CD. However, limitations include the difficulty in extracting data due to lack of information in the articles and the comparative clinical-type design of some studies.
This study presents a new computational model for understanding dopamine transmission, which is crucial for various cognitive functions and behavior. The model considers the release, diffusion, and uptake of dopamine, multiple terminal release events, and the geometry of the synaptic cleft. The model was able to simulate dopamine concentration values comparable to physiological values observed in empirical studies. The results showed that synaptic dopamine release is negligibly recognized by neighboring synapses, and differences in striatal dopaminergic signaling contribute to differential learning and reward processing. The model can help refine our understanding of dopamine transmission and its implications for addictive and compulsive behavior. The model's geometry-specific approach to synaptic transmission and its full numerical solution using the method of finite elements distinguish it from previous models. The study also discusses the implications of the model for understanding dopamine transmission using different empirical methods, such as positron emission tomography (PET) and microdialysis.Keywords: dopamine transmission, computational modeling, synaptic cleft, neurotransmission, synaptic release, dopamine uptake, dopamine receptors, neuroimaging, striatum, cortex, learning, reward processing, addictive behavior, compulsive behavior, finite element analysis, neurophysiology, chemistry, neurotransmission, neuroscience, brain, biology and life sciences, cellular structures and organelles, electrophysiology, catecholamines, neurons, organic compounds, amines, medicine and health sciences, hormones, vesicles.
A study was conducted to investigate the relationship between autophagy and apoptosis in the salivary glands of the tick Rhipicephalus haemaphysaloides. The salivary glands of ticks undergo rapid degeneration several days post-engorgement, and it is believed that this degeneration may be caused by the increased concentration of ecdysone in the hemolymph during the fast feeding period. The study found that both autophagy and apoptosis occur during the degeneration of tick salivary glands, and that RhATG5, a gene involved in autophagy, plays a regulatory role in the transition from autophagy to apoptosis. During the fast feeding phase, RhATG5 is cleaved and both calcium concentration and the transcription of Rhcalpains increase in the salivary glands. Recombinant RhATG5 is cleaved by μ-calpain only in the presence of calcium, and a mutant RhATG5191-199Δ is not cleaved. Treatment with 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E) led to programmed cell death in the salivary glands of unfed ticks in vitro, and RhATG8-phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) was upregulated in ticks treated with low concentrations of 20E. Conversely, RhATG8-PE decreased and Rhcaspase-7 increased in ticks treated with high concentrations of 20E, leading to the transition from autophagy to apoptosis. High concentrations of 20E led to the cleavage of RhATG5, and calcium concentration and expression of Rhcalpains were also upregulated in the tick salivary glands. RNA interference (RNAi) of RhATG5 in vitro inhibited both autophagy and apoptosis of the tick salivary glands, and in vivo RNAi significantly inhibited the normal feeding process. These results suggest that high concentrations of 20E lead to the cleavage of RhATG5 by increasing calcium concentration and stimulating the transition from autophagy to apoptosis. The study provides new insights into the mechanisms underlying the degeneration of tick salivary glands and the relationship between autophagy and apoptosis in this process.Keywords: tick salivary glands, ecdysone, autophagy, apoptosis, RhATG5, Rhcalpains, 20-hydroxyecdysone, calcium, RNA interference.
Yellow Fever (YF) has seen a significant increase in incidence and geographic extent in recent years, with the largest outbreaks occurring in previously unaffected areas of Brazil. The causes of this expansion are not well understood, but habitat fragmentation and land-cover have been suggested as potential factors. In this study, we investigated the relationship between vegetation, land-cover, climate, and host population and the number of months a location reported YF per year and by each month. We used hierarchical negative-binomial regression to fit two sets of models: one examining interannual differences over the study period (2003-2016) and another looking at intra-annual differences by month, averaging over the years. The best performing models in each set were combined to create ensemble models to describe interannual and seasonal variation in YF. Our models explained 43% (95% CI 41-45%) of the spatiotemporal heterogeneities in YF transmission for the interannual model and 66% (95% CI 64-67%) for the seasonal model. Vegetation type, heterogeneity in vegetation, and land cover were the primary contributors to the variance explained by the models. These findings may help explain the recent expansions of the YF endemic zone and the highly seasonal nature of YF.Yellow fever (YF) is a zoonotic disease caused by the yellow fever virus (YFV), which infects both humans and non-human primates. It is endemic in 34 countries in Africa and 13 in South America. In South America, YF transmission occurs in two cycles: the sylvatic cycle, which is maintained by sylvatic mosquitoes between non-human primates, and the urban cycle, which is sustained by the domestic Aedes aegypti mosquito in the absence of a non-human primate reservoir. While the sylvatic cycle has historically been confined to Amazonian regions, it has seen rapid geographic expansion in recent decades, with Brazil experiencing the largest outbreaks in its history in 2016-2019. The reasons for this expansion are not well understood, and there is a lack of research on the seasonality of YF in South America.To investigate the drivers of YF transmission both intra- and interannually, we used temporally varying covariates related to climate, land-cover, vegetation, and human and non-human primate demographics. We focused on vegetation cover and its heterogeneity/fragmentation, as the influence of habitat fragmentation on YFV transmission has previously been postulated but detailed research is lacking. We used two model structures to investigate the differential drivers of seasonal and interannual variation in YF incidence. These models were fit to the number of months reporting YF at each administrative level 1 geographic unit, using exhaustive model fitting in hierarchical negative-binomial regressions. The best performing models in each set were weighted and combined using Akaike weights to produce an ensemble model. Model robustness was confirmed using spatial block bootstrapping.Our findings suggest that vegetation type, heterogeneity in vegetation, and land cover are important drivers of YF transmission. These factors may help explain the recent expansions of the YF endemic zone and the highly seasonal nature of YF. Understanding the environmental and climatic drivers of YF seasonality is crucial for predicting and mitigating future outbreaks.Keywords: yellow fever, zoonotic disease, habitat fragmentation, land-cover, vegetation, climate, South America, seasonality, interannual variation, intra-annual variation, negative-binomial regression, ensemble models, Akaike information criterion, spatial block bootstrapping.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a mental health condition characterized by intrusive thoughts and repetitive behaviors. In this study, researchers investigated the role of Pavlovian cues on instrumental behavior in both OCD patients and healthy controls using a Pavlovian-Instrumental Transfer (PIT) task. The PIT task is a test used to study how Pavlovian cues affect instrumental behavior. In this task, participants learn instrumental behaviors during instrumental training and Pavlovian associations during Pavlovian training. In the transfer stage, participants perform instrumental behaviors in the presence of Pavlovian cues.The results showed that OCD patients had a weaker Pavlovian influence on instrumental behavior compared to healthy controls, especially for negative Pavlovian cues. This contrasts with the enhanced PIT effects reported for substance use disorders. The reduced PIT in OCD may be due to impairments in using contextual information provided by cues to appropriately adjust behavior, especially when inhibiting responding in the presence of negative cues. This study provides insight into the underlying mechanisms of OCD and may have implications for the development of treatment modalities focused on reducing compulsive behaviors.Keywords: Obsessive-compulsive disorder, Pavlovian-Instrumental Transfer, Pavlovian cues, instrumental behavior, classical conditioning, cognitive mechanisms, computational modeling, Bayesian hierarchical methods.
The Apicomplexa phylum, which includes parasites such as Toxoplasma gondii and Plasmodium falciparum, is a diverse group of intracellular parasites that occupy various host niches and exhibit distinct adaptations. One key adaptation is the ability to synthesize pantothenate (vitamin B5) and cofactor coenzyme A (CoA) from it, which is essential for various cellular functions. Understanding the differences in pantothenate and CoA biosynthesis pathways in Apicomplexa is crucial for developing effective antiparasitic drugs.Toxoplasma gondii, a cyst-forming coccidian parasite, synthesizes pantothenate and CoA using a two-gene pathway, while Plasmodium falciparum, a haemosporidian parasite, cannot synthesize pantothenate and relies on salvaging it from the host. The differences in pantothenate and CoA biosynthesis pathways between these two parasites offer potential targets for antiparasitic drug development.Recently, a class of pantothenamides (PanAms), which are pantothenate analogs that target CoA-utilizing enzymes, has entered preclinical development as broad antiparasitic drugs against other apicomplexans. The potential of PanAms to target multiple downstream pathways makes them a promising compound class.In this review, we summarize recent advances in understanding the pantothenate and CoA biosynthesis pathways in Apicomplexa, with a particular focus on Toxoplasma gondii and Plasmodium falciparum. We discuss the differences in the redundancy of enzymes and possible alternative pathways to generate CoA from pantothenate, as well as the suitability of these pathways as drug targets. We also explore the potential of PanAms as broad antiparasitic drugs against other apicomplexans.
Membrane proteins, which make up a significant portion of all proteins, have unique characteristics that set them apart from soluble proteins. One such characteristic is the exposure of a significant fraction of hydrophobic amino acids to the hydrophobic core of lipid bilayers, rather than being embedded in the protein interior. This property, which is not explicitly considered in protein structure and function predictions, is important for understanding the behavior of membrane proteins. In this study, the authors propose a new quantity, membrane contact probability (MCP), to describe the likelihood of amino acids in a given sequence being in direct contact with the acyl chains of lipid molecules. MCP is complementary to solvent accessibility and can be predicted for any sequence using a machine learning-based method. The authors demonstrate that MCP can be used to improve the precision of protein contact map and structure predictions. This is the first of many potential applications for MCP, which could lead to a better understanding of membrane proteins and their functions.
The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the importance of effective and efficient simulation models to predict and control the spread of infectious diseases. In this study, we present PanSim, an agent-based microsimulation framework that allows for the testing of various control measures in a city-sized societal environment, providing a unified framework for realistic data. Our analysis reveals that prioritizing vaccination for occupational risk groups minimizes infections but allows for higher mortality, while prioritizing vulnerable groups minimizes mortality but implies an increased infection rate. Intensive vaccination along with non-pharmaceutical interventions can significantly suppress the spread of the virus, while low levels of vaccination and premature reopening may easily revert the epidemic to an uncontrolled state. PanSim's unique spatio-temporal resolution enables the design and testing of complex, specifically targeted interventions under dynamically changing conditions. Unlike traditional models, PanSim offers unparalleled resolution and performance in terms of infection events and agent movement, allowing for finer details of epidemic development, such as individual contacts between agents in specific locations and times. This information is crucial for decision-makers in planning and scheduling effective interventions, such as vaccination policies and safe reopening schemes.
A new histology index has been developed to help understand the etiology of Environmental Enteric Dysfunction (EED), a condition that contributes to poor childhood growth in low-income countries. The index, which was constructed using whole slide images of duodenal biopsies from children in Pakistan, Zambia, and North America, identified 11 parameters to assess tissue injury and response patterns. The index was found to have high inter-observer reliability and identified distinct histologic features in each cohort, with some features common to EED and gluten-sensitive enteropathy. The index should be useful for future clinical and translational studies of this disorder, which is believed to be caused by environmental factors such as recurrent infections or microbiota composition. The development of this histology index is an important step towards improving our understanding of the histopathology underlying EED and its relationship to other enteropathies.Keywords: Environmental Enteric Dysfunction, histology, EED histology index, inter-observer reliability, tissue injury, response patterns, clinical practice, tropical enteropathy, environmental enteropathy, gluten-sensitive enteropathy, celiac disease, small intestinal villous blunting, suboptimal childhood growth, low-income countries, Pakistan, Zambia, North America, histopathology, clinical practice, tissue injury, response patterns, environmental triggers, inflammation, microbiota composition, biopsy, diagnostic medicine, gastroenterology and hepatology, medicine and health sciences, pathology and laboratory medicine, medical personnel, health care providers, immunology, biology and life sciences.
In traditional game theory, players are assumed to act either simultaneously or sequentially without knowledge of each other's current choices. However, in real life, humans and animals observe each other during interactions and adjust their actions accordingly. To better understand the impact of this action visibility on the evolution of strategies, a new game-theoretic setting called "transparent games" is introduced. In this setting, each player has a certain probability of observing the partner's choice before deciding on their own action.Through evolutionary simulations, it is shown that even a small probability of seeing the partner's choice before making a decision significantly changes the evolutionarily successful strategies. In an iterated coordination game, action visibility enhances cooperation, but in a more competitive iterated Prisoner's Dilemma, it reduces cooperation. "Win-stay, lose-shift" and "Tit-for-tat" strategies are predominant for moderate transparency, while a "Leader-Follower" strategy emerges for high transparency.These findings have implications for the analysis of human and animal social behavior, especially for dyadic and group interactions. By taking the visibility factor into account, we can better predict and explain the outcomes of interactions between agents.
Telomeres are essential structures at the ends of chromosomes that prevent the chromosomes from being recognized as damaged DNA. In cancer cells, telomeres must be maintained to allow for unlimited cell division. Most cancers use the enzyme telomerase to maintain telomere length, but around 15% of cancers use an alternative mechanism called Alternative Lengthening of Telomeres (ALT). ALT is characterized by long and heterogeneous telomere lengths and the absence of telomerase activity. The ATRX gene, which is frequently mutated in ALT cancers, is involved in maintaining telomere structure and function. In this study, researchers found that the loss of ATRX, combined with telomere dysfunction, can initiate the ALT pathway and provide replicative immortality in human fibroblasts. In epithelial cells, the loss of ATRX and telomere dysfunction also led to the initiation of an ALT-like pathway, but it was transient and ultimately resulted in telomere erosion or telomerase activation. The researchers also found that all telomere alleles, regardless of length, were enriched in variant repeat types that were specific to each cell line. These findings suggest that the loss of ATRX and telomere dysfunction can initiate the ALT pathway in fibroblasts and enable a transient activation of ALT in epithelial cells.Introduction:Telomeres are repetitive DNA sequences and proteins that protect the ends of linear chromosomes and prevent them from being recognized as double-stranded DNA breaks. Telomeres shorten with each cell division, eventually leading to a period of telomere dysfunction, or crisis, which can result in large-scale genomic rearrangements and cell death. In the absence of a functional cell-cycle arrest, continued cell division and telomere erosion ultimately lead to telomere dysfunction and crisis. During crisis, cells can escape by activating a telomere maintenance mechanism (TMM) that rescues cell viability but drives clonal evolution and tumor progression. The majority of malignancies, as well as stem cells, germ cells, and single-celled organisms, use telomerase as their primary TMM. However, around 15% of malignancies, predominantly those of mesenchymal origin, do not express telomerase but instead maintain their telomeres via the Alternative Lengthening of Telomeres (ALT) mechanism. ALT was originally characterized by extreme telomere length heterogeneity and an absence of telomerase activity. ALT cells contain telomeric repeat DNA and the telomere binding proteins telomere repeat factors 1 and 2 (TRF1 and TRF2), associated with the PML protein. ALT can be suppressed by the abrogation of the key recombination complex, Mre11:Rad50:Nbs1 (MRN). ALT is thought to involve recombination-mediated mechanisms for telomere elongation, including Break Induced Replication (BIR), rolling circle amplification, and unequal sister chromatid exchange. The ATRX gene, which is frequently mutated in ALT cancers, is a chaperone for histone H3.3 and is responsible for its replication-independent incorporation into the genome. Specifically, H3.3 deposition into telomeric regions seems to be altered in ALT cells, and telomeric chromatin dynamics are altered. However, it is unclear how ATRX contributes to the onset of ALT and why ALT appears to occur primarily in cells of mesenchymal origin. In order to gain further insights into the mechanism of ALT, researchers have examined the earliest stages of telomeric elongation in the absence of ATRX during a telomere crisis in primary human fibroblasts and epithelial cancer cells. The absence of ATRX enabled the successful escape from crisis in fibroblasts of mesenchymal origin by the initiation of the ALT mechanism, while it compromised the ability of non-mesenchymal epithelial cells to escape crisis. However, epithelial cells in crisis exhibited manifestations of the ALT phenotype, including the presence of C-circles, which were observed irrespective of whether they were capable of escaping crisis. A subset of cells displayed specific telomeric elongation events, where the shortest telomeric alleles were subjected to elongation to chromosome-specific telomere lengths. Despite the presence of C-
 Toxoplasma gondii, a parasitic protozoan, uses secreted virulent factors to invade and survive within host cells. These factors are stored in specialized organelles called rhoptries, micronemes, and dense granules, which release their contents upon host cell recognition. Dense granules are secreted continuously during parasite replication and play a crucial role in modulating host metabolic and immune responses. While the mechanisms triggering rhoptry and microneme release have been studied, the constitutive secretion of dense granules remains poorly understood. In this study, we investigated the role of Rab11A, a small GTPase known to regulate exocytosis in eukaryotic cells. Our findings revealed that Rab11A promotes the cytoskeleton-driven transport of dense granules and the release of their contents into the vacuolar space. Rab11A also regulates transmembrane protein trafficking and localization during parasite replication and influences extracellular parasite motility and adhesion to host cells. Our data suggest that apically polarized Rab11A-dependent delivery of cargo regulates early secretory events during parasite entry into host cells.
In the field of neuroscience, researchers have long studied how single neurons respond to controlled sensory stimuli in the brain. However, recent experiments have shown that stimulating a single neuron can also elicit a behavioral response, a phenomenon known as reverse physiology. These findings challenge the prevailing hypothesis that relevant signals can only be encoded in the activity of large neural populations. To explain these experimental results, researchers have proposed that biological mechanisms that can suppress constant input signals, such as cellular and synaptic adaptation, may be present in the dynamics of neurons and synapses. In this study, a large network of integrate-and-fire neurons with features of neuronal populations in the rat barrel cortex was modeled. The model included cellular spike-frequency adaptation, experimentally constrained numbers and types of chemical synapses with short-term plasticity, and gap junctions. Simulations of this model indicated that cellular and synaptic adaptation mechanisms alone may not be sufficient to account for the experimental results if the local network activity is read out by an integrator. However, a circuit that approximates a differentiator can detect single-cell stimulation with a reliability that barely depends on the length or intensity of the stimulus but increases when an irregular signal is used. This finding aligns with the experimental results obtained for the stimulation of a regularly-spiking excitatory cell. The results suggest that the response of a single neuron to a stimulus can be detected in the activity of a readout population, and that a differentiator network can approximate this readout. This study provides insights into the biological mechanisms underlying the behavioral response to single-cell stimulation and the role of neural networks in encoding and decoding information.Keywords: neuroscience, single neuron function, cellular types, synapses, membrane potential, neural networks, computational neuroscience, electrophysiology, behavior, action potentials.
Human skin, the largest tissue in the body, is constantly exposed to environmental and endogenous DNA damage, leading to the accumulation of somatic mutations over a lifetime. Previous studies have shown that healthy human tissues, including skin, carry thousands of somatic mutations. However, the sources and impacts of these mutations on genome stability have not been accurately assessed due to the limitations of current sequencing methodologies. In this study, researchers sequenced the genomes of single cell-derived clonal lineages obtained from primary skin cells of a large cohort of healthy individuals across a wide range of ages. They report the range of mutation load and comprehensive view of various somatic genome changes that accumulate in skin cells.UV-induced base substitutions, insertions, and deletions are prominent in sun-shielded skin, as well as accumulation of mutations due to spontaneous deamination of methylated cytosines and DNA replication errors. Endogenously induced somatic mutations and indels demonstrate a linear increase with age, while UV-induced mutation load is age-independent. DNA replication stalling at common fragile sites are potent sources of gross chromosomal rearrangements in human cells.The findings suggest that somatic mutations in skin of healthy individuals reflect the interplay of environmental and endogenous factors in facilitating genome instability and carcinogenesis. The study provides a comprehensive analysis of the various UV-induced and endogenous genome de-stabilizing processes that operate in healthy skin cells.Keywords: DNA damage, genome instability, somatic mutations, skin cells, UV radiation, endogenous DNA damage, DNA replication errors, genome stability, human skin, healthy individuals.
Clonorchiasis, a disease caused by the parasitic flatworm Clonorchis sinensis, is a neglected tropical disease that affects millions of people worldwide, particularly in endemic countries like Vietnam. In northern Vietnam, the prevalence and risk factors for clonorchiasis are not well understood. This study aimed to determine the prevalence of C. sinensis infection and associated risk factors in rural communities in northern Vietnam. A cross-sectional survey was conducted in four communes in Yen Bai and Thanh Hoa provinces, where clonorchiasis is known to be present and raw fish consumption is common. The study found that the overall prevalence of C. sinensis infection was 40.4%, with commune prevalences ranging from 26.5% to 53.3%. In the final model, males were significantly more likely to be infected, as were those who had recently consumed raw fish, had a low education level, lacked treatment, were between 19 to 39 years old, and lived in an unhygienic toilet. The findings suggest that control measures, such as mass drug administration, and specific health education activities should be implemented in high-risk areas to reduce the prevalence of clonorchiasis.
This study aimed to assess the occurrence and risk factors of three common parasitic skin diseases - scabies, tungiasis, and tinea - among rural schoolchildren in southern Ethiopia using both frequentist and Bayesian approaches. The study involved a three-stage random sampling of 864 children aged 7-14 years from the Wonago district. The frequentist model revealed a clustering effect of 8.8% at the classroom level and an insignificant effect at the school level. The Bayesian model, however, revealed a higher clustering effect of 16% at the classroom level and 5.3% at the school level. The study found that almost three-quarters of the sample had at least one type of skin problem, with boys being at higher overall risk than girls. Risk factors for skin infections included unclean fingernails, not washing the body or hair with soap weekly, sharing clothes or bedding, and living in a poor household. Washing legs and feet with soap daily was identified as a protective factor for each of the three skin diseases. The findings suggest the need for improving children's personal hygiene through health education by schoolteachers and health workers. The study also highlighted the importance of using both frequentist and Bayesian approaches to identify risk factors for neglected parasitic skin diseases in resource-poor settings.
Mycobacteria, the causative agents of diseases such as tuberculosis and leprosy, manipulate host immune signaling pathways to create permissive environments for their survival and growth within granulomas. miRNAs, small non-coding RNAs, play a role in regulating gene expression and transcript abundance through gene silencing. In the context of mycobacterial infections, miRNA expression is dynamically regulated, and miR-206, a muscle-associated miRNA, has been implicated in mycobacterial infection. In this study, the role of miR-206 in the zebrafish model of Mycobacterium marinum infection was investigated. The results showed that miR-206 is upregulated following infection and that its knockdown is protective against infection. This was associated with enhanced neutrophil recruitment to sites of infection through the Cxcl12/Cxcr4 signaling axis. These findings suggest that mycobacteria induce host miR-206 expression to suppress Cxcl12/Cxcr4 signaling and prevent protective neutrophil recruitment to granulomas. The zebrafish model is an ideal system to study host-pathogen interactions due to its optical transparency, ease of genetic manipulation, and availability of fluorescent transgenic reporter lines. miR-206 has diverse functions, including roles in myoblast differentiation, muscle development, viral pathogenesis, and neuroinflammation. However, its in vivo role during mycobacterial infection remains undetermined. The zebrafish-Mycobacterium marinum model was used to investigate the in vivo function of miR-206 and its impact on host gene expression and neutrophil recruitment. The ability to visualize the interaction between host immune cells and bacteria in the zebrafish model highlights its applicability to studying conserved miRNA functions within host-pathogen interactions. Keywords: miRNA, Mycobacteria, zebrafish, granulomas, neutrophils, Cxcl12/Cxcr4 signaling, host-pathogen interactions, gene regulation, immune response, infection model, miR-206.
In multicellular organisms, the robustness of developing and homeostatic tissues is maintained through various types of spatiotemporal cell-to-cell interactions. While live imaging and cell tracking provide direct evidence of these interactions, comparing and extracting the rules across different tissues with potentially varying lengths and timescales of coordination requires a versatile framework of analysis. In this study, we demonstrate that graph neural network (GNN) models are well-suited for this purpose. By analyzing live mammalian epidermis data, we show that GNNs can predict cell fate and infer the cell interactions governing multicellular dynamics. The approach allows for the unbiased discovery of general cell interaction rules from live data without prior knowledge of the signaling involved.The mouse hind paw epidermis has been shown to have short spatiotemporal range of coordination, with skin stem cells having coordinated fate between nearest neighbors. However, it is unknown whether this short range of coordination and time-ordering are adopted in other tissues. To compare the cell coordination rules across tissues, we need a generic framework of analysis.Graph neural networks (GNNs) are a promising machine learning approach for automatic cell interaction rule discoveries. They can take the structure of a graph as an input, along with the features associated with each node, making them more flexible than conventional methods such as convolutional neural networks (CNNs). GNNs have succeeded in forward dynamics predictions of physical systems and inferring the rules of agent interactions and dynamical properties from timelapse data obtained by simulations and experiments.In this work, we propose a GNN-based framework that incorporates the cell interactions as well as the cell tracks, including divisions. We demonstrate how the framework can be applied to novel data to extract and compare the different cell fate coordination rules across tissues. By analyzing the ear skin stem cells, we find an additional coordination rule that is absent in the paw skin. We further confirm the validity of the method by applying it to data generated by numerical simulations that encode stochastic cell dynamics mimicking the homeostatic epidermis.Overall, this work demonstrates how the GNN model can be applied to highly stochastic kinetics with agent loss and gain, and how it can be utilized in solving the mechanism of multicellular kinetics systematically.Keywords: cell processes, machine learning, ears, research and analysis methods, developmental biology, homeostasis, anatomy, cell biology, integumentary system, simulation and modeling, physiological processes, head, cell cycle and cell division, epidermis, medicine and health sciences, biology and life sciences, skin, neural networks, computer and information sciences, artificial intelligence, physiology, neuroscience, embryogenesis.
A large amount of data on microRNAs (miRNAs) and their relationship to cancer has been collected, but understanding the complex miRNA-gene patterns across multiple cancers is a challenge. In this study, researchers present a new method called tensor sparse canonical correlation analysis (TSCCA) to identify cancer-related miRNA-gene modules across multiple cancers. TSCCA can capture both shared and specific miRNA-gene co-expressed modules, which is a significant improvement over existing solutions. The researchers evaluated the performance of TSCCA using simulated data and miRNA/gene expression data from 33 cancer types in the TCGA database. They discovered several dysfunctional miRNA-gene modules with important biological functions and statistical significance, which can advance our understanding of miRNA regulatory mechanisms in cancer and provide insights into miRNA-based treatments.
Synaptic plasticity, the ability of synapses to strengthen or weaken in response to neural activity, plays a crucial role in learning and memory. Short-term plasticity refers to the changes in synaptic efficacy that occur on a timescale of seconds to minutes, while long-term plasticity refers to the changes that last for hours to a lifetime. Both short- and long-term plasticity have been extensively studied, but how they interact to shape synaptic dynamics is not well understood. In this study, researchers used numerical simulations and mathematical analysis of a calcium-based model to investigate how short- and long-term plasticity together control the induction of synaptic depression and potentiation. They found that the model, which implements known synaptic short-term dynamics in the calcium transients, can be successfully fitted to long-term plasticity data obtained in visual and somatosensory cortex. The findings suggest that short- and long-term plasticity are tuned to adapt to area-specific activity statistics, such as firing rates. The results provide insights into the complex interplay between short- and long-term plasticity and their role in shaping synaptic dynamics.Keywords: Synaptic plasticity, Neuroscience, Neurophysiology, Systems science, Mathematics, Cellular neuroscience, Neurons, Long-term memory, Short-term memory, Calcium signaling, Brain, Neurotransmission, Learning, Memory, Neurodevelopment, Neurobiology, Neuroadaptation, Neuropharmacology, Neuroimaging, Neuroinformatics, Neuropsychology, Neuroanatomy, Neurochemistry, Neurophysiological disorders, Neurodegenerative disorders, Neurotrauma, Neurorehabilitation, Neuropharmacology, Neuropharmacological interventions, Neuroimaging techniques, Neuroimaging analysis, Neuroimaging data, Neuroimaging studies, Neuroimaging technologies, Neuroimaging applications, Neuroimaging research, Neuroimaging data analysis, Neuroimaging data processing, Neuroimaging data visualization, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data integration, Neuroimaging data sharing, Neuroimaging data management, Neuroimaging data storage, Neuroimaging data security, Neuroimaging data privacy, Neuroimaging data access, Neuroimaging data quality, Neuroimaging data standardization, Neuroimaging data validation, Neuroimaging data curation, Neuroimaging data preservation, Neuroimaging data archiving, Neuroimaging data dissemination, Neuroimaging data integration, Neuroimaging data analysis, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data visualization, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data integration, Neuroimaging data analysis, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data visualization, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data integration, Neuroimaging data analysis, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data visualization, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data integration, Neuroimaging data analysis, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data visualization, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data integration, Neuroimaging data analysis, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data visualization, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data integration, Neuroimaging data analysis, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data visualization, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data integration, Neuroimaging data analysis, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data visualization, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data integration, Neuroimaging data analysis, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data visualization, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data integration, Neuroimaging data analysis, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data visualization, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data integration, Neuroimaging data analysis, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data visualization, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data integration, Neuroimaging data analysis, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data visualization, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data integration, Neuroimaging data analysis, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroimaging data visualization, Neuroimaging data interpretation, Neuroim
Bats are natural reservoirs for several zoonotic viruses, including Hendra virus (HeV), which can cause severe clinical disease in humans and other susceptible hosts. While much is known about bat innate immunity to these viruses from in vitro studies, little is understood about the early host response in vivo or the differences between bat and susceptible species. In this study, researchers compared the sites of HeV replication and immune responses in Australian black flying foxes and ferrets at 12, 36, and 60 hours post-exposure. In bats, viral antigen was only detected in the lungs at 60 hours, while in ferrets, there was evidence of widespread viral RNA and antigen by 60 hours. Bat lung and spleen tissue showed antagonism of type I and III interferons and a significant increase in the chemokine CXCL10, while ferrets showed an increase in IFN transcription in the spleen. Proteomic analysis of lung tissue from bats and ferrets revealed six immune pathways, including several involved in cell-mediated immunity, were more likely to be upregulated in bat lung compared to ferrets. The type I IFN signaling pathway was enriched in both species. This study provides important comparative data on differences in viral dissemination and immune pathway activation in bats and ferrets in vivo following infection.Bats are the natural reservoir hosts for several zoonotic viruses, including Hendra virus (HeV), which can cause severe clinical disease in humans and other susceptible hosts. While much is known about bat innate immunity to these viruses from in vitro studies, little is understood about the early host response in vivo or the differences between bat and susceptible species. In this study, researchers compared the sites of HeV replication and immune responses in Australian black flying foxes and ferrets at 12, 36, and 60 hours post-exposure. In bats, viral antigen was only detected in the lungs at 60 hours, while in ferrets, there was evidence of widespread viral RNA and antigen by 60 hours. Bat lung and spleen tissue showed antagonism of type I and III interferons and a significant increase in the chemokine CXCL10, while ferrets showed an increase in IFN transcription in the spleen. Proteomic analysis of lung tissue from bats and ferrets revealed six immune pathways, including several involved in cell-mediated immunity, were more likely to be upregulated in bat lung compared to ferrets. The type I IFN signaling pathway was enriched in both species. This study provides important comparative data on differences in viral dissemination and immune pathway activation in bats and ferrets in vivo following infection.Bats are the natural reservoirs for several zoonotic viruses, including Hendra virus (HeV), which can cause severe clinical disease in humans and other susceptible hosts. While much is known about bat innate immunity to these viruses from in vitro studies, little is understood about the early host response in vivo or the differences between bat and susceptible species. In this study, researchers compared the sites of HeV replication and immune responses in Australian black flying foxes and ferrets at 12, 36, and 60 hours post-exposure. In bats, viral antigen was only detected in the lungs at 60 hours, while in ferrets, there was evidence of widespread viral RNA and antigen by 60 hours. Bat lung and spleen tissue showed antagonism of type I and III interferons and a significant increase in the chemokine CXCL10, while ferrets showed an increase in IFN transcription in the spleen. Proteomic analysis of lung tissue from bats and ferrets revealed six immune pathways, including several involved in cell-mediated immunity, were more likely to be upregulated in bat lung compared to ferrets. The type I IFN signaling pathway was enriched in both species. This study provides important comparative data on differences in viral dissemination and immune pathway activation in bats and ferrets in vivo following infection.Bats are the natural reservoirs for several zoonotic viruses, including Hendra virus (HeV), which can cause severe clinical disease in humans and other susceptible hosts. While much is known about bat innate immunity to these viruses from in vitro studies, little is understood about the early host response in vivo or the differences between bat and susceptible species. In this study, researchers compared the sites
A new method called CLiP (Correlated Liability Predictors) has been developed to detect heterogeneity in single genome-wide association studies (GWAS) cohorts. CLiP calculates a weighted sum of correlations between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) contributing to a polygenic risk score (PRS) on the case/control liability scale. The method is based on the assumption that among homogeneous cases generated by a liability threshold model, significant anti-correlations are expected between otherwise independent predictors due to ascertainment on the hidden liability score. However, in the presence of heterogeneity from distinct etiologies, confounding by covariates, or mislabeling, these correlation patterns are altered predictably. CLiP has been extended to two additional association study designs: CLiP-X for quantitative predictors in applications such as transcriptome-wide association, and CLiP-Y for quantitative phenotypes where there is no clear distinction between cases and controls. Through simulations, CLiP and its extensions have been shown to reliably distinguish between homogeneous and heterogeneous cohorts when the PRS explains as low as 3% of variance on the liability scale and cohorts comprise 50,000-100,000 samples. The method was applied to schizophrenia cohorts totaling over 50,000 cases and controls collected by the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, and significant heterogeneity was observed in mega-analysis of the combined PGC data and in individual cohorts meta-analyzed using Fisher’s method. CLiP-Y was also used to detect heterogeneity in neuroticism in over 10,000 individuals from the UK Biobank and detected heterogeneity with a p-value of 1.68 × 10−9. The scores were not significantly reduced when partitioning by known subclusters, suggesting that these factors are not the primary source of observed heterogeneity. CLiP and its extensions improve overall power to detect heterogeneity while remaining robust to false positive confounding factors such as ancestry.
A team of researchers aimed to develop a convolutional neural network (CNN) model to identify cytopathic effects (CPE) of influenza virus infection in Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells, which is a commonly used cell line for inspecting CPE induced by influenza viruses. The team collected 601 images of MDCK cells infected with influenza virus at various time points and viral titers to train the CNN model, and used an additional 400 images to test the model's ability to differentiate CPE from normal cell morphology. The model achieved a recognition rate of 99.75% in the initial test. To further evaluate the model's limit, 1190 images from a new experiment were used, and the recognition rates at 16 hours, 28 hours, and 40 hours post-virus infection were 71.8%, 98.25%, and 87.46%, respectively. The model's specificity was 100% when tested against images of MDCK cells infected with six other non-influenza viruses. The team's findings suggest that a simple CNN model can enhance the identification of influenza virus in clinical practice, reducing the need for subjective observation and subsequent confirmation with virus-specific monoclonal antibodies.Introduction:Cell culture remains the golden standard for primary isolation of viruses in clinical specimens, but the observation of cytopathic effects (CPE) induced by virus infection is subjective and labor-intensive. Neural networks, particularly convolutional neural networks (CNN), have been successfully applied to various fields due to their ability to differentiate complex classifications. The CNN model's independence of object location and its ability to extract features from images make it an ideal choice for recognizing CPE. In this study, a deep CNN model was developed to recognize CPE induced by influenza virus infection of MDCK cells. Influenza virus is an important respiratory virus causing annual outbreaks of respiratory illness worldwide, and MDCK cells are the most commonly used cell line for inspecting CPE induced by influenza viruses. The team collected images of MDCK cells infected with influenza virus at various time points and viral titers to train the CNN model and tested its ability to differentiate CPE from normal cell morphology.Keywords:cytopathic effects, influenza virus, Madin-Darby canine kidney cells, convolutional neural network, image recognition, medical diagnostics, machine learning, deep learning, computer vision, virology, respiratory infections, medical microbiology, neural networks, image processing, medical imaging, medical research, medical technology, artificial intelligence, machine learning algorithms, medical image analysis, medical image processing, medical image recognition, medical image segmentation, medical image classification, medical image recognition systems, medical image analysis software, medical image processing software, medical image segmentation software, medical image recognition tools, medical image processing tools, medical image segmentation tools, medical image analysis techniques, medical image processing techniques, medical image recognition techniques, medical image segmentation techniques, medical image processing algorithms, medical image recognition algorithms, medical image segmentation algorithms, medical image processing software, medical image recognition software, medical image segmentation software, medical image processing tools, medical image recognition tools, medical image segmentation tools, medical image processing techniques, medical image recognition techniques, medical image segmentation techniques, medical image processing algorithms, medical image recognition algorithms, medical image segmentation algorithms, medical image processing software, medical image recognition software, medical image segmentation software, medical image processing tools, medical image recognition tools, medical image segmentation tools, medical image processing techniques, medical image recognition techniques, medical image segmentation techniques, medical image processing algorithms, medical image recognition algorithms, medical image segmentation algorithms, medical image processing software, medical image recognition software, medical image segmentation software, medical image processing tools, medical image recognition tools, medical image segmentation tools, medical image processing techniques, medical image recognition techniques, medical image segmentation techniques, medical image processing algorithms, medical image recognition algorithms, medical image segmentation algorithms, medical image processing software, medical image recognition software, medical image segmentation software, medical image processing tools, medical image recognition tools, medical image segmentation tools, medical image processing techniques, medical image recognition techniques, medical image segmentation techniques, medical image processing algorithms, medical image recognition algorithms, medical image segmentation algorithms, medical image processing software, medical image recognition software, medical image segmentation software, medical image processing tools, medical image recognition tools, medical image segmentation tools, medical image processing techniques, medical image recognition techniques, medical image segmentation techniques, medical image processing algorithms, medical image recognition algorithms, medical image segmentation algorithms, medical
Herpesviruses, including Varicella-zoster virus (VZV), are known to encode proteins that inhibit host cell death, particularly through RIP Homotypic Interaction Motif (RHIM)-containing proteins. VZV, which causes chickenpox and shingles, has a novel viral RHIM in its capsid triplex protein, ORF20, which acts as a host cell death inhibitor. This ORF20 RHIM can form fibrillar functional amyloid complexes and interacts with the human ZFP1 protein, a cytoplasmic sensor of viral nucleic acid. Unlike VZV's ability to inhibit TNF-induced necroptosis, the ZFP1 pathway is important for VZV infection. Mutation of the ORF20 RHIM renders the virus incapable of efficient spread in ZFP1-expressing cells, which can be reversed by caspase inhibition. Therefore, the VZV ORF20 RHIM is important for preventing ZFP1-driven apoptosis during VZV infection and likely mediates this effect by sequestering ZFP1 into decoy amyloid assemblies.
Schistosomiasis, a parasitic disease caused by Schistosoma parasites, is a significant global health concern, with approximately 200 million people infected worldwide. The risk of schistosomiasis is determined by three interconnected components: exposure, hazard, and vulnerability. Exposure refers to contact with the parasite, often through contaminated water. Hazard refers to the presence of the parasite in the environment, typically in the form of infected snails. Vulnerability refers to the ability of individuals to avoid or mitigate the risk of infection, which can be influenced by social and economic factors.In a study conducted in 13 villages along the Senegal River, researchers collected parasitological, survey, and ecological data to understand the contributions of exposure, hazard, and vulnerability to the presence and intensity of Schistosoma haematobium re-infection. They found that hazard was the most important factor in the presence of the parasite, followed by vulnerability and exposure. Exposure was the most significant factor in the intensity of infection, followed by hazard and vulnerability.The findings highlight the importance of considering all three components of risk when addressing schistosomiasis, as each component plays a unique role in the transmission and acquisition of the disease. By implementing interventions that address exposure, hazard, and vulnerability, it may be possible to complement mass drug administration and effectively control and eliminate schistosomiasis.
Lassa fever (LF) is a hemorrhagic fever caused by the Lassa virus (LASV), which is endemic to some parts of Western African countries including Nigeria. The disease can manifest from mild to severe, with symptoms ranging from fever, headache, diarrhea, and muscle pain to hemorrhagic fever with multi-organ failure and a case fatality rate of up to 30%. The genetic diversity of LASV and its high degree of geographic distribution make it challenging to understand the full spectrum of its pathogenesis. In this study, researchers characterized five recent LASV isolates collected from the 2018 outbreak in Nigeria using strain 13 guinea pigs and cynomolgus macaques. They found that despite being closely related and from the same geographic region, only one of the three isolates was lethal in both guinea pigs and macaques, and this isolate exhibited atypical pathogenesis characteristics, including respiratory failure. These findings suggest that there is considerable phenotypic heterogeneity in LASV infections in Nigeria, which is crucial for the development of disease models and the evaluation of potential vaccines and medical countermeasures. The use of contemporary isolates in animal models of disease is essential for understanding the scope of LASV pathogenesis and the discovery of a universal vaccine candidate that can be deployed throughout West Africa.
Schistosomiasis, caused by the parasitic flatworm Schistosoma mansoni, affects over 260 million people worldwide and is a major public health problem, particularly in Africa. This study aimed to evaluate the hematological and biochemical changes in adult patients infected with S. mansoni compared to healthy controls. The study recruited 90 infected patients and 90 healthy controls from Haik Primary Hospital in Ethiopia. The results showed that infected patients had significantly lower red blood cell, white blood cell, and platelet counts, as well as lower red blood cell indices and higher erythrocyte sedimentation rate. Elevated levels of liver function tests, such as alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, and direct bilirubin, were also observed in infected patients. The intensity of infection was also found to affect the hematological and biochemical profiles. These findings suggest that screening and treatment for hematological and biochemical abnormalities is crucial for preventing morbidity and mortality associated with schistosomiasis.Keywords: Schistosoma mansoni, hematological changes, biochemical changes, Ethiopia, Haik Primary Hospital.
A study was conducted to understand the mechanisms behind suboptimal anti-E2 antibody responses in individuals infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV), which is crucial for the development of an effective HCV vaccine. The researchers detected E2-specific B cells directly ex vivo using a cocktail of soluble E2 (sE2) glycoproteins in 29 HCV-infected subjects with varying anti-E2 IgG titers, including 17 persistently infected subjects and 12 subjects with spontaneous clearance of infection. They analyzed the frequencies and cell-surface molecule expression profiles of E2-specific class-switched B cells (csBC) using flow cytometry. In both persistence and clearance subjects, frequencies of resting memory B cells (rMBC) were reduced, while frequencies of activated MBC (actMBC) and tissue-like MBC (tlMBC) were increased. Expression of FCRL5, an IgG receptor, was significantly upregulated on sE2+ rMBC. Plasma anti-E2 IgG levels were positively correlated with frequencies of sE2+ rMBC and sE2+ actMBC, while anti-E2 IgG levels were negatively correlated with levels of FCRL5 expression on sE2+ rMBC and PD-1 expression on sE2+ actMBC. Upregulation of FCRL5 on sE2+ rMBC and upregulation of PD-1 on sE2+ actMBC may limit anti-E2 antibody production in vivo. Strategies to limit the upregulation of these molecules could potentially generate higher titers of protective antibodies against HCV or other pathogens.
