 During the development of the brain, neural networks go through a transition from immature to mature forms, which is crucial for the complex computations underlying cognition. However, the time course of this transition remains poorly understood. In this study, researchers investigated the progression of large-scale synaptic and cellular activity patterns in immature mice using high spatiotemporal resolution in vivo electrophysiology. They found that mature cortical processes emerge rapidly and simultaneously after a discrete but volatile transition period at the beginning of the second postnatal week of rodent development. This transition is characterized by relative neural quiescence, after which spatially distributed, temporally precise, and internally organized activity occurs. Similar developmental trajectories were found in humans, suggesting an evolutionarily conserved mechanism. The researchers hypothesize that this transient quiescent period is a requisite for the subsequent emergence of coordinated cortical networks. During this developmental epoch, cortical microcircuits are still undergoing dramatic changes in anatomical connectivity and functional connectivity between and within cortical layers. These local circuit changes are paralleled with the gradual ingrowth of subcortical neurotransmitters that assist in setting brain state changes. Together, these modifications could prime a shift in network operating mode, setting the stage for re-emergence of a different oscillation that occupies a similar frequency band, thalamocortical sleep spindles. In contrast to immature spindle bursts, these oscillations are characteristic of the offline state of non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep only, and they facilitate memory consolidation. This study provides insights into the developmental mechanisms that underlie the transition from immature to mature neural networks and the emergence of complex computational abilities in the brain.
 In the field of neuroscience, researchers have long been interested in understanding how decisions are made in the brain. One popular theory suggests that decisions arise from the accumulation of noisy evidence until it reaches a threshold or bound. This theory, known as bounded evidence accumulation, has been used to explain the effects of stimulus strength on decision speed, accuracy, and confidence.To test the predictions of this theory, researchers introduced a novel sensory manipulation to mimic the addition of unbiased noise to motion-selective regions of visual cortex. They verified this manipulation with neuronal recordings from macaque areas MT/MST and found that increasing the noise led to faster decisions and greater confidence for both humans and monkeys. The effects were in agreement with predictions of the bounded evidence accumulation model.The theory proposes that the decision process is a race between competing accumulators, each of which integrates momentary evidence for one alternative and against the others. The decision terminates when the accumulated evidence for one alternative reaches a threshold or bound, determining both the choice and the decision time. Confidence in the decision derives from a mapping between the decision variable and the probability that a decision based on this variable will be correct.The predictions of the theory are that when the momentary evidence is weak, increasing the noise should lead to (i) lower accuracy when the expectation of the momentary evidence is strong, (ii) faster reaction times, and (iii) increased confidence due to the decision variable tending to diffuse more quickly away from the starting point, leading to states that are normally associated with stronger evidence and thus greater confidence.These predictions have not been thoroughly tested, as a controlled method for selectively increasing noise is not known. However, recent studies using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and cortical microstimulation (µStim) have suggested that these techniques might affect both the mean and the variance of the neural representation of momentary evidence, but the characterization of these effects was inferred from behavior.To test the influence of noise on the three observables of choice behavior in a controlled manner, researchers introduced a novel sensory manipulation to increase the volatility of the motion information in a random dot motion (RDM) display, while leaving the mean unchanged. They verified the manipulation by recording from direction selective neurons in the middle temporal (MT) and medial superior temporal (MST) areas of the macaque visual cortex and found that the manipulation had the desired properties. They then used the volatility manipulation to test the influence of noise on accuracy, reaction time, and confidence in monkeys and humans.
 End-stage kidney disease (ESKD) patients with COVID-19 have increased levels of hundreds of proteins involved in inflammation and tissue injury compared to matched non-infected ESKD patients. Using a combination of statistical and machine learning analyses, researchers identified over 200 proteins that are linked to disease severity and over 69 with increased risk of death. Tracking how levels of blood proteins changed over time revealed further differences between mild and severe disease. These findings suggest that identifying the proteins that are a cause of severe COVID-19, rather than just correlated with it, is an important next step that could help to select new drugs for severe COVID-19 treatment.ESKD patients have a particularly high risk of developing severe or fatal COVID-19, with a mortality rate of approximately 30%. They have a high prevalence of vascular and cardiometabolic disease, either as a result of the underlying cause of their renal disease or as a consequence of renal failure. In addition, ESKD results in both relative immunosuppression and chronic low-grade inflammation, which may impact viral defence and the host inflammatory response.To better understand the molecular drivers of severe disease and identify potential drug targets, researchers performed proteomic profiling of serial blood samples of ESKD patients with COVID-19. They used a large multi-ethnic haemodialysis cohort to leverage the unique opportunity for longitudinal sampling in both the outpatient and inpatient settings. The data revealed 221 proteins that are dysregulated in COVID-19 versus matched non-infected ESKD patients. Using linear mixed models, joint models, and machine learning, they identified proteins that are markers of COVID-19 severity and risk of death. Finally, they characterized the temporal dynamics of the blood proteomic response during COVID-19 infection in ESKD patients, uncovering 32 proteins that display altered trajectories in patients with severe versus non-severe disease. These findings provide a valuable resource for identifying drug targets and prioritizing potential repurposing opportunities for the treatment of severe COVID-19.
 Recent research suggests that capillary pericytes, which surround the smallest blood vessels in the body, play a crucial role in regulating microcirculation. However, the presence of contractile machinery in these cells has been a subject of debate due to the lack of detection of key contractile proteins, such as α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), in capillary pericytes. To address this paradox, researchers used rapid filamentous-actin (F-actin) fixation or F-actin stabilizing agents to demonstrate that pericytes on mouse retinal capillaries, including those in intermediate and deeper plexus, express α-SMA. The study also found that junctional pericytes were more frequently α-SMA-positive than pericytes on linear capillary segments. Furthermore, intravitreal administration of short interfering RNA (siRNA) against α-SMA selectively suppressed α-SMA expression in high order branch capillary pericytes, confirming the existence of a smaller pool of α-SMA in distal capillary pericytes that is quickly lost by depolymerization. Overall, these findings provide evidence that capillary pericytes do express α-SMA, which rapidly depolymerizes during tissue fixation, making it difficult to detect through immunolabeling. This discovery may have important implications for understanding the role of pericytes in regulating blood flow and potentially in the development of new therapeutic approaches for various diseases.
 Gene transcription, the process by which cells create RNA copies of their DNA, is a crucial aspect of cellular function. In metazoan cells, transcription is often regulated at the level of promoter-proximal pausing, which can be detected by measuring the occupancy of paused RNA polymerase II (Pol II) at the promoter region. However, the mechanisms underlying how Pol II pausing regulates RNA transcript synthesis remain unclear.Recent research has suggested that a decreased pause duration goes along with a higher initiation frequency, as occupancy peaks for promoter-proximal Pol II can increase upon gene activation or remain high even when pausing is impaired. However, the height of Pol II occupancy peaks cannot directly inform on initiation frequency or pause duration because it depends on both the number of polymerases passing the pause site and their residence time.A kinetic model of transcription predicted that pause duration delimits the initiation frequency and suggested that paused Pol II sterically interferes with initiation. Indeed, modeling reveals that a paused polymerase positioned up to around 50 bp downstream of the transcription start site (TSS) could sterically interfere with formation of the Pol II initiation complex. Even if a paused polymerase is located further downstream, it may still interfere with initiation if one or more additional elongating polymerases line up behind it.Until recently, it was not possible to test this critical relationship between pausing and initiation experimentally due to the lack of methods to measure initiation frequencies. However, a recently developed method called transient transcriptome sequencing (TT-seq) now allows for the measurement of local RNA synthesis rates genome-wide at nucleotide resolution.Using TT-seq, researchers have investigated whether changes in pause duration alter initiation frequency in living cells. They specifically inhibited the kinase CDK9, which facilitates Pol II pause release, and monitored RNA synthesis and initiation frequencies by TT-seq. The combination of TT-seq data with mNET-seq data allowed for the derivation of pause durations for active genes.The results showed that the duration of pausing can control transcription initiation at human genes, and derived determinants for CDK9-dependent pause release and initiation activation. These findings provide important insights into the relationship between pausing and initiation and have implications for understanding the regulation of gene expression in both normal and diseased cells.
 Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a common human tumor virus that can cause various types of cancer. EBV infection leads to the growth transformation of B cells, which requires the expression of six viral latent genes. One of these genes, Latent Membrane Protein 1 (LMP1), is necessary for the survival and growth of infected B cells. However, during early infection, B cells rapidly proliferate with low levels of LMP1 expression and little apoptosis. This study aimed to define the mechanism of survival in the absence of LMP1/NFκB early after infection.Using BH3 profiling, the researchers identified a transition from uninfected B cells to early-infected and immortalized cells. This dynamic change in B cell survival mechanisms is unique to virus-infected cells and relies on the regulation of MCL-1 mitochondrial localization and BFL-1 transcription by the viral EBNA3A protein. This study defines a new role for EBNA3A in the suppression of apoptosis, which has implications for EBV lymphomagenesis.Introduction:Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a human tumor virus that is causally linked to several types of cancer. Normally, T cells prevent the development of EBV-associated malignancies, and the virus persists quiescently in latently-infected memory B cells. However, in the absence of a healthy immune system, EBV can transform B cells, leading to increased rates of lymphoma in these populations. Primary human B cell infection in vitro by EBV serves as a model for oncogenesis in EBV-associated lymphomas.The process of B cell transformation requires the expression of six viral latent genes: Epstein-Barr Nuclear Antigen 1 (EBNA1), EBNA2, EBNA-LP, EBNA3A, EBNA3C, and Latent Membrane Protein 1 (LMP1). EBNA2, the major viral transcriptional activator, upregulates the expression of other viral EBNA genes as well as host genes. It also activates the expression of the viral oncoprotein LMP1, which drives the immortalization of the infected B cell into a lymphoblastoid cell line (LCL) that proliferates indefinitely in culture.LMP1 is necessary for continued LCL growth and survival. It constitutively activates the NFκB pathway, promoting proliferation and suppressing apoptosis in transformed cells. Inhibition of the NFκB pathway activated downstream of LMP1 leads to apoptosis in LCLs. However, recent work has shown that early after infection, B cells rapidly proliferate despite low levels of LMP1 expression and NFκB activation. These early-infected cells also show no overt signs of apoptosis, suggesting that there is a viral-mediated mechanism independent of LMP1 signaling that promotes survival.Several LMP1-independent mechanisms to subvert apoptosis have been described. For example, the viral BHRF1 protein confers chemoresistance in a mouse model of Burkitt lymphoma (BL). Similarly, the viral BHRF1 and BALF1 proteins exert non-redundant roles in protecting initially infected cells from apoptosis. Expression of the EBNA3 proteins induces resistance to apoptosis in BL cells and primary B cells by downregulating Bim expression, making infected cells less 'primed' for apoptosis. The EBNA3 family is also known to epigenetically downregulate additional human genes involved in cell cycle regulation and apoptosis.The intrinsic apoptosis pathway is controlled by complex protein-protein interactions at the surface of mitochondria that regulate the release of cytochrome c. These functional interactions can be interrogated with an established approach called 'BH3 profiling', which uses peptides derived from BH3-only pro-apoptotic proteins to identify the anti-apoptotic BCL-2 family members important for preventing apoptosis in a particular cell. In this study, the researchers characterized the BH3 profile of uninfected and EBV-infected primary human B cells from early proliferation through long-term outgrowth. They validated these profiles using BH3 mimetics and identified a novel virus-specific transition in survival mechanisms between early
 RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) is the enzyme responsible for transcribing protein-coding genes in eukaryotes. The C-terminal domain (CTD) of RNAPII is a large, disordered region composed of multiple heptapeptide repeats. This domain plays a crucial role in the co-transcriptional recruitment of chromatin modifiers and RNA processing machinery. Extensive phosphorylation of the CTD occurs during the transcription cycle, with different phosphorylation marks indicating distinct stages. In vertebrates, the CTD contains eight non-canonical substitutions of serine-7 with lysine, which can be acetylated (K7ac). Now, researchers have identified two new modifications of CTD-lysine-7: mono-methylation (K7me1) and di-methylation (K7me2). These modifications occur during the earliest stages of transcription and precede or accompany serine-5 and serine-7 phosphorylation. In contrast, K7ac is associated with RNAPII elongation, serine-2 phosphorylation, and mRNA expression. The balance between RNAPII K7 methylation and acetylation at gene promoters fine-tunes gene expression levels.
 The actin cytoskeleton is a complex network of filaments that plays a crucial role in various cellular processes, including cell division and movement. The self-organization of actin filaments into distinct networks is a result of the interactions between multiple actin binding proteins (ABPs). In this study, the authors focused on three ABPs – tropomyosin Cdc8, bundling protein fimbrin Fim1, and severing protein coffin Adf1 – and their interactions with actin filaments.Using multi-color TIRF microscopy of in vitro reconstituted F-actin networks, the researchers observed and characterized two distinct Cdc8 cables loading and spreading cooperatively on individual actin filaments. They also found that Cdc8, Fim1, and Adf1 all compete for association with F-actin by different mechanisms, and their cooperative association with actin filaments affects their ability to compete. Furthermore, competition between Fim1 and Adf1 for F-actin synergizes their activities, promoting rapid displacement of Cdc8 from a dense F-actin network.These findings reveal that competitive and cooperative interactions between actin binding proteins help define their associations with different F-actin networks. Understanding these interactions at a molecular level can provide insights into how ABPs function in concert and contribute to the proper sorting of ABPs to diverse F-actin networks on a whole-cell scale.
 Sleep is a complex physiological process that plays a crucial role in various functions, including memory consolidation and synaptic homeostasis. Non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep, characterized by slow-wave electrophysiological activity, is particularly important for these functions. However, NREM sleep is heterogeneous and varies in duration, depth, and spatial distribution across the cortex. While these features are thought to be independently regulated, recent studies suggest that they are mechanistically coupled.To investigate how cortical NREM sleep features are controlled, researchers examined the astrocytic network, which comprises a cortex-wide syncytium that influences population-level neuronal activity. They quantified endogenous astrocyte activity in mice over natural sleep and wake cycles and then manipulated specific astrocytic G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling pathways in vivo.The findings revealed that astrocytic Gi- and Gq-coupled GPCR signaling separately control NREM sleep depth and duration, respectively. Astrocytic signaling also causes differential changes in local and remote cortex. These data support a model in which the cortical astrocyte network serves as a hub for regulating distinct NREM sleep features.Understanding the mechanisms underlying NREM sleep regulation is essential for developing new treatments for sleep disorders and improving our overall understanding of sleep functions. The study provides valuable insights into the role of astrocytes in regulating sleep depth and duration and highlights the importance of considering the interplay between different sleep features.
 In this study, researchers analyzed the transcriptional signatures of various experiences in the mouse brain, including rewarding and aversive experiences, and found that each experience had a unique and reliable transcriptional representation. These signatures allowed recent experiences to be decoded with high accuracy from a minimal transcriptional signature. Experiences with shared attributes, such as valence, habituation, and reinforcement, displayed commonalities in their transcriptional signatures. The findings introduce the concept of a neural transcriptional code, which represents the encoding of experiences in the mouse brain and is composed of distinct transcriptional signatures that correlate to attributes of the experiences being committed to long-term memory. This code could provide insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying memory formation and could have implications for drug development and objective measures of subjective experiences.
 Microsporidia are intracellular parasites that rely on transport proteins to acquire essential metabolites from their host cells. Despite their importance, the functions and substrate specificities of most Microsporidia transporters are unknown. In this study, researchers provide functional data for a family of transporters conserved in all microsporidian genomes and related endoparasites. These transporters are ATP and GTP transporters located on the surface of parasites during their intracellular growth and replication. This discovery identifies a new route for the acquisition of essential energy and nucleotides for a major group of intracellular parasites that infect most animal species including humans.
 Influenza A viruses (IAV) are known to shut off host gene expression to ensure priority access to the translation machinery for their own mRNAs. However, the mechanisms behind this host shutoff are not well understood. In a recent study, researchers used RNA-sequencing and ribosome profiling to explore the mechanisms of IAV-induced host shutoff. They found that viral transcripts are not preferentially translated, but instead, the decline in cellular protein synthesis is due to viral takeover on the mRNA pool. Interestingly, short transcripts are less affected by IAV, and these mRNAs are enriched in cell maintenance processes such as oxidative phosphorylation. Furthermore, continuous oxidative phosphorylation activity is important for viral propagation. These findings advance our understanding of IAV-induced shutoff and suggest a mechanism that facilitates the translation of genes with important housekeeping functions.
 In this study, researchers investigated the role of the circadian transcription factor RpaA in carbon metabolism in the cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus. They found that deletion of rpaA impaired the ability of cells to maintain energy status and accumulate carbon reserves during the day, and to utilize those reserves during the night. These defects were corrected by providing an external carbon source, restoring energy charge and viability of the rpaA- strain in light/dark cycling conditions. These findings highlight the importance of the circadian output pathway in coordinating essential carbon metabolism pathways to maximize cellular fitness under periodic energy limitations.
 Coiled coils are well-studied protein structures, with a backbone that can be described using parametric equations. However, recent research has revealed an unexpected finding: the insertion of just two or six residues into the underlying heptad repeat of a parallel trimeric coiled coil can lead to the formation of a new type of fiber called an α/β coiled coil. This new fiber retains only one backbone hydrogen bond per repeat unit from the parent coiled coil. The results suggest that a substantially novel backbone structure is possible within the allowed regions of the Ramachandran space with only minor mutations to a known fold. This discovery challenges our understanding of protein structure and highlights the importance of continued research in this area.
 Hemoglobin (Hb), a protein responsible for tissue oxygen delivery, has long been studied for its adaptive properties. While it was believed that only the affinity of oxygen binding to Hb determines molecular adaptations, new research suggests that both affinity and cooperativity reflect evolutionary and physiological adaptations.To test this hypothesis, researchers derived the relationship between the Hill coefficient and the relative affinity and conformational changes parameters of the Monod-Wymann-Changeux allosteric model and graphed the 'biophysical Hill landscape'. They found that mammalian Hb cooperativity values all reside on a ridge of maximum cooperativity along this landscape, allowing for both gross- and fine-tuning of tissue oxygen unloading to meet the distinct metabolic requirements of mammalian tissues.This finding reveals the mechanism underlying body size-related adaptation of mammalian Hb and has implications for understanding the evolution of other proteins. The 'biophysical Hill landscape'-mapping strategy used in this study offers a mechanistic-level understanding of how physiological and evolutionary variations shape the molecular properties of proteins.
 In the tiny Brazilian cave insect Neotrogla, females have a unique reproductive system that includes a penis-like intromittent organ and a switching valve in their genitalia. This system allows females to compete for semen from multiple males, which is essential for their survival in nutrient-poor cave habitats. The switching valve is composed of two plate-like sclerites, a closure element, and in-and-outflow canals. Females use their intromittent organ to anchor males during copulation and obtain large volumes of semen, which is then stored in a spermatheca. The semen is not only used for fertilization but also consumed by the female as a source of nutrition. The valve complex has two slots for insemination, enabling females to mate while the first slot is occupied. This switching valve is a morphological novelty that may have been a prerequisite for the reversal of the intromittent organ in Neotrogla. The evolution of this complex system is discussed in the context of its functional significance and potential implications for the evolution of the female's intromittent organ.
 The posterior parietal cortex (PPC) is a crucial area of the brain involved in sensorimotor integration, and its functions have led to disparate views. Some studies relate PPC activity to the control of body movement, while others link it to decision-making, especially for decisions based on vision. A recent study investigated how spatial navigation, body movement, and decision-making are reflected in PPC activity by training mice in a virtual navigation task that relies on visual decision-making. The results showed that when mice use vision to choose their trajectories, a large fraction of parietal cortex activity can be predicted from simple attributes such as spatial position and heading. These findings suggest that the PPC may be more important for setting trajectories than for processing visual images or making abstract decisions.
 The gene regulatory network (GRN) is a central decision-making module of the cell, and researchers have developed a theory called Buffered Qualitative Stability (BQS) to explain how these networks remain robust in the face of unpredictable environmental and evolutionary changes. BQS predicts that GRNs should remain stable under arbitrary perturbations, including the random addition of new connections. The theory has been verified in the GRNs of E. coli, M. tuberculosis, P. aeruginosa, yeast, mouse, and human. BQS explains many small- and large-scale properties of GRNs, provides conditions for evolvable robustness, and highlights general features of transcriptional response. However, the theory is severely compromised in a human cancer cell line, suggesting that loss of BQS might underlie the phenotypic plasticity of cancer cells and highlighting a possible sequence of GRN alterations concomitant with cancer initiation.
 The human gut microbiome, the largest community of microbes in the body, plays a crucial role in digestion, immunity, and even mood regulation. However, alterations in the gut microbiome have been linked to various diseases, and understanding the specificity of these alterations is essential for developing microbiome-based diagnostics and therapeutics. Three key aspects of microbiome-disease alterations need to be clarified: the disease-associated components, the directionality of the associations, and the extent of shared versus disease-specific microbiome alterations.Previous studies have identified disease-specific microbiome alterations, such as an increase of pathobionts like Fusobacterium, Porphyromonas, and Parvimonas in colorectal cancer, and a depletion of specific taxa like Roseburia and Faecalibacterium in inflammatory bowel disease. However, recent meta-analyses have shown a surprising degree of overlap of microbiome associations, both at the level of specific taxa and specific microbial metabolic pathways.Despite these overlaps, the links between the microbial taxa and the functional pathways that are consistently altered across multiple diseases have not been explored in detail. Microbiome-based diagnostics/therapeutics also need to account for several host factors, including age and region/ethnicity.Ghosh et al. analyzed the gut microbiome in 15 studies encompassing four diseases, comprising more than 2,500 individuals ranging from 20 to 89 years of age. They showed that disease-microbiome associations display specific age-centric trends, with ageing-associated microbiome alterations towards a disease-like configuration occurring in colorectal cancer patients, thereby masking disease signatures. They identified a microbiome disease response shared across multiple diseases in elderly subjects that is distinct from that in young/middle-aged individuals, but also a novel set of taxa consistently gained in disease across all age groups. A subset of these taxa was associated with increased frailty in subjects from the ELDERMET cohort. The relevant taxa differentially encode specific functions that are known to have disease associations.In summary, the study highlights the importance of considering age and other host factors when investigating microbiome-disease associations. The findings provide insights into the complex interplay between microbiome alterations and disease development across the human age landscape.
 Recent studies have suggested that magnetic fields may play a role in biological systems, with claims of a protein complex acting like a compass needle for magnetic orientation in animals and magnetic control of membrane conductance. However, these claims conflict with basic laws of physics, as the reported phenomena involve large discrepancies, from 5 to 10 log units. If these effects do occur, they must have causes entirely different from those proposed by the authors. The paramagnetic nature of protein complexes limits their utility for engineering magnetically sensitive cells. In this short report, we argue that these magnetic effects on biological molecules and cells should be evaluated in light of fundamental physical principles.
 Congenital amusia is a condition characterized by impaired pitch processing, leading to a lifelong history of unreliable pitch perception. Individuals with amusia downweight pitch cues during speech perception and instead rely on other dimensions such as duration. A recent study investigated the neural basis for this strategy using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and found that individuals with amusia had prominent reductions in functional connectivity between left prefrontal language-related regions and right hemisphere pitch-related regions. These connectivity differences were not present during a control task, indicating a compensatory mechanism. The results suggest that the reliability of perceptual dimensions is linked with functional connectivity between frontal and perceptual regions.
 Retinitis pigmentosa is a genetic condition that affects the function of photoreceptor cells in the eye, leading to vision loss. While the primary focus of research has been on the rod photoreceptors that detect low light, recent evidence suggests that the death of cone photoreceptors, which are responsible for color and high-acuity vision, is also a result of the loss of essential nutrients and energy sources. One theory is that the death of rod photoreceptors leads to a shortage of nutrients for cone photoreceptors, which in turn causes their death.To test this theory, researchers have developed a new gene therapy designed to alleviate the potential shortfall in nutrients for cone cells. They used three different strains of mice that had the same genetic mutations as humans with retinitis pigmentosa and administered the treatment to monitor the mice's vision and how cone cells responded. One of the 20 genes tested, Txnip, had a beneficial effect, prolonging cone cell survival in all three mouse strains.The researchers found that Txnip forced the cones to start using lactate as an energy source, which could be more available to them than glucose, their usual fuel. Additionally, the cells had healthier mitochondria, which is thought to be the basis for the extended cone survival and function. These experiments have identified a good gene therapy candidate for treating retinitis pigmentosa independently of which genes are causing the disease. Further research will be required to test the safety of the gene therapy and whether its beneficial effects translate to humans with retinitis pigmentosa.In summary, this study provides evidence that the death of cone photoreceptors in retinitis pigmentosa is not only due to the direct effects of the disease-causing mutations but also due to a shortage of essential nutrients and energy sources. The researchers have identified a new gene therapy that targets the underlying cause of the nutrient shortage and have shown that it can prolong cone cell survival in mouse models of the disease. Further research is needed to determine if this therapy can be effective in humans with retinitis pigmentosa.
 Recent research has shown that capillary pericytes, the cells surrounding the smallest blood vessels, play a crucial role in regulating microcirculation. However, the presence of contractile proteins in these pericytes, specifically α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), has been a subject of debate due to its infrequent detection. A new study hypothesizes that the rapid depolymerization of α-SMA during tissue fixation is the reason for its elusive detection. By using rapid filamentous-actin (F-actin) fixation methods or preventing F-actin depolymerization, the researchers were able to detect α-SMA in a much larger fraction of microvascular pericytes, including those on the intermediate and deeper retinal vascular beds. These findings support the idea that pericytes contain and rely upon only small amounts of α-SMA, and that this protein plays a role in regulating blood flow at the level of individual capillaries. This discovery may provide insights into conditions such as stroke, which is caused by reduced blood flow to the brain.
 In the complex process of manufacturing proteins in cells, the endoplasmic reticulum membrane protein complex (EMC) plays a crucial role in ensuring protein quality by accommodating the variety of physical features that proteins can have. Miller-Vedam, Bräuning, Popova et al. investigated the normal structure of the EMC in both yeast and human cells to understand its activity. They found that the complex is arranged similarly within and around the membrane in both species. Next, they generated 50 mutant versions of the EMC in human cells to determine how changing different parts of the complex affected the production of three proteins that rely on the EMC to fold correctly: squalene synthase, beta adrenergic receptor, and sigma intracellular receptor 2.The largest section of the complex, which sits inside the endoplasmic reticulum, protected proteins as they folded, ensuring they were not destroyed for being folded incorrectly before they were fully formed. Mutations in this part of the EMC negatively impacted the stability of sigma intracellular receptor 2 without negatively affecting the other proteins. The section of the EMC outside of the endoplasmic reticulum, within the main cellular compartment, provided a platform where proteins could associate before entering the membrane. Mutations in this section negatively impacted the stability of squalene synthase.The part of the EMC that spans the membrane contains both a fat-filled cavity and a cavity with a 'door' that is either open or closed. Mutations in this section disrupted the insertion of both squalene synthase and the beta adrenergic receptor into the membrane. The largest section of the complex protected proteins as they folded, ensuring they were not destroyed for being folded incorrectly before they were fully formed. Mutations in this part of the EMC negatively impacted the stability of sigma intracellular receptor 2 without negatively affecting the other proteins.These findings provide insights into how membrane proteins are manufactured, stabilized, coordinated, and monitored for quality. These findings could contribute towards the development of new treatments for certain congenital diseases, such as cystic fibrosis, retinitis pigmentosa, and Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, which are thought to be caused by mutations within membrane proteins that require the EMC during their production.
