 The hippocampus, a crucial brain region for memory storage and retrieval, has long been studied using the framework of autoassociative memory networks. However, this framework assumes that synaptic weights can grow arbitrarily large or even switch sign, which violates biological constraints. Recent theories have focused on metaplasticity, a mechanism that modulates synaptic plasticity, to address this issue. Metaplastic synapses enable information to be stored in bounded synapses almost as efficiently as additive learning rules, but their implications for memory recall and the dynamics of neurons associated with that retrieval are unknown.In this study, a theoretical framework is developed for memory storage and recall with bounded synapses. The recall of a previously stored pattern from a noisy recall cue and limited-capacity synapses is formulated as a probabilistic inference problem, and neural dynamics that implement approximate inference algorithms to solve this problem efficiently are derived. For binary synapses with metaplastic states, it is demonstrated for the first time that memories can be efficiently read out with biologically plausible network dynamics that are completely constrained by the synaptic plasticity rule and the statistics of the stored patterns and of the recall cue.This theory organizes a wide range of existing data about the regulation of excitability, feedback inhibition, and network oscillations in area CA3 into a coherent framework and makes novel and directly testable predictions that can guide future experiments.
 Endogenous retroviruses (ERVs) are remnants of ancient retroviral infections of the host germline that are passed down from generation to generation. Some ERVs are believed to function as restriction factors to block the infection of pathogenic retroviruses. Sheep are an interesting model system to study retrovirus-host coevolution due to the presence of two exogenous oncogenic retroviruses, Jaagsiekte sheep retrovirus (JSRV) and Enzootic nasal tumor virus (ENTV), and highly related endogenous retroviruses (enJSRVs). In this study, the authors isolated and characterized 27 enJSRV proviruses, which have been integrating in the host genome for the past 5-7 million years. Two of these proviruses, enJS56A1 and enJSRV-20, acquired a defective Gag polyprotein in two distinct events, resulting in a transdominant phenotype that blocks late replication steps of related exogenous retroviruses. Both transdominant proviruses became fixed in the host genome before or around sheep domestication. Interestingly, a provirus that escapes the transdominant enJSRVs has recently emerged. These findings suggest that endogenization and selection of ERVs acting as restriction factors is a mechanism used by the host to fight retroviral infections.
 The Drosophila embryonic gonad is formed from two distinct cell types: Primordial Germ Cells (PGCs) and Somatic Gonadal Precursor cells (SGPs). The PGCs, which form at the posterior of the embryo during gastrulation, must traverse the midgut wall and migrate through the mesoderm to reach the SGPs. This migration is guided by a combination of local repulsive cues and attractive signals emanating from the SGPs. In this study, we investigated the role of the hedgehog (hh) pathway gene shifted (shf) in directing PGC migration.Shf encodes a secreted protein that facilitates the long-distance transmission of Hh through the proteoglycan matrix after it is released from basolateral membranes of Hh-expressing cells in the wing imaginal disc. Shf is expressed in the gonadal mesoderm, and loss- and gain-of-function experiments demonstrate that it is required for PGC migration. Previous studies have shown that the hmgcr-dependent isoprenoid biosynthetic pathway plays a pivotal role in generating the PGC attractant both by the SGPs and by other tissues when hmgcr is ectopically expressed. We show that production of this PGC attractant depends upon shf as well as a second hh pathway gene gγ1.Furthermore, we present evidence indicating that ectopic expression of hmgcr in the nervous system promotes the release/transmission of the Hh ligand from these cells into and through the underlying mesodermal cell layer, where Hh can contact migrating PGCs. Potentiation of Hh by hmgcr appears to depend upon cholesterol modification. Overall, our results suggest that shf plays a crucial role in the production and transmission of the PGC attractant, which is essential for PGC migration.
 In the developing spinal cord, the interaction of extrinsic signals with intrinsic transcriptional networks establishes spatially and temporally restricted profiles of gene expression, leading to the segregation of the tissue into dorsal and ventral subdivisions. One key TF involved in this process is Pax3, which is among the first to delineate the dorsal neural tube and later identifies the 6 progenitor domains that comprise dorsal progenitors. The genomic interval immediately upstream of the mouse Pax3 promoter is sufficient to direct expression to the neural tube, but the spatial domain of Pax3 expression is not fully understood.In this study, we used lineage tracing analyses in mice and transgenic assays in chick and zebrafish embryos to dissect the molecular mechanism and regulatory logic of Pax3 expression in dorsal neural progenitors. We show that Pax3 expression is refined during neural tube patterning by the temporal activity of distinct regulatory elements. We provide evidence that in addition to Wnt signaling, Nkx family homeodomain (HD) containing repressors are critical for establishing the restricted expression of Pax3. Moreover, we demonstrate that autoregulation and positive feedback is required to maintain Pax3 expression in the neural tube.Our findings reveal the way in which intrinsic and extrinsic signals are integrated by cells and converted into a sustained pattern of gene activity in the developing nervous system. Understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying the specification of progenitor identity in the vertebrate neural tube provides insight into the regulatory logic of the transcriptional networks responsible for tissue patterning.
 This study aimed to understand the transcriptional regulation of pluripotent cells, such as embryonic stem (ES) cells, by identifying genes upregulated in pluripotent cells both in vitro and in vivo. These genes are enriched for roles in transcription, chromatin remodeling, cell cycle, and DNA repair. The researchers developed a computational algorithm called CompMoby to systematically predict short DNA motifs that regulate gene expression. They identified conserved overrepresented motifs in genes upregulated in pluripotent cells, which are preferentially active in undifferentiated mouse ES and embryonic germ cells and can act as enhancers in the context of an endogenous promoter. Importantly, the activity of the motifs is conserved in human ES cells. They also showed that the transcription factor NF-Y specifically binds to one of the motifs, is differentially expressed during ES cell differentiation, and is required for ES cell proliferation. This study provides novel insights into the transcriptional regulatory networks of pluripotent cells and suggests that this systematic approach can be broadly applied to understanding transcriptional networks in mammalian species.
 Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) is a multifunctional cytokine involved in acute and chronic inflammation, antitumor responses, and infection. TNFα binds to two opposing receptors, TNFR1 and TNFR2, leading to distinct signaling events. Enhanced TNFα synthesis is linked to the development of autoimmune/chronic inflammatory diseases, including psoriasis, lichen planus, rheumatoid arthritis, and inflammatory bowel disease. However, paradoxically, TNFα antagonist therapy can lead to new-onset psoriasis and lichen planus or worsening of existing psoriasis. The role of TNFα and its receptors in skin inflammation has been scarcely studied.Previous studies using gene-targeted mutant mice lacking either TNFR1 or TNFR2 showed that skin inflammation induced by irritant chemicals or direct intradermal administration of TNFα was attenuated in TNFR1-deficient mice, while TNFR2-deficient siblings responded normally. Mice with an arrested canonical NF-κB activation pathway in the keratinocytes develop a severe inflammatory skin disease shortly after birth, which is caused by TNFα- and macrophage-mediated, but T-cell–independent, mechanisms.To study the impact of Tnfa, Tnfr1, and Tnfr2 deficiencies on skin homeostasis, the present study took advantage of the strengths of the zebrafish embryo model. The results showed that Tnfa and Tnfr2 are both crucial, whereas Tnfr1 is dispensable, for the homeostasis of the skin. Genetic inhibition of Tnfa and Tnfr2 promotes H2O2-mediated skin infiltration by neutrophils, increased keratinocyte proliferation, and the local activation of the master inflammation transcription factor NF-κB, which then promotes the induction of genes encoding pro-inflammatory molecules. DUOX1 was strongly induced in keratinocytes of human psoriasis and lichen planus patients, and pharmacological inhibition of Duox1 abrogated skin inflammation, placing Duox1-derived H2O2 upstream of this positive feedback inflammatory loop.These findings suggest that therapies targeting DUOX1 and H2O2 could provide innovative approaches to the management of skin inflammatory disorders.
 This study investigates the role of Mincle signaling on neutrophils during TDM-induced lung inflammation and the subsequent immune responses. Neutrophils were recruited during the initial phase of TDM-induced inflammation in a Mincle-dependent manner, and Mincle signaling on neutrophils resulted in surface expression of the CD11b/CD18 integrin, thereby augmenting neutrophil adhesion. TDM-induced Mincle signaling was dependent on Src, Syk, MAPK/ERK kinases (MEK), and MAPK. Coactivation of the Mincle and TLR2 pathways caused neutrophils to be in a highly-activated state through the induction of robust inflammatory responses, including high CD11b/CD18 surface expression, adhesion, ROS production, and TNFα production. The physiological relevance of the TDM-induced immune response was confirmed by the requirement of Mincle for efficient eradication of Mtb upon aerosol infection and by the defects of the neutrophil-depleted mice in the production of key cytokines/chemokines during TDM-induced inflammation. These results indicate that the Mincle pathway in neutrophils plays an important role in mycobacterial TDM-induced lung inflammation.
 In the complex world of microbial pathogens, understanding the intricacies of their infection processes is crucial for developing effective countermeasures. One such pathogen is Streptococcus pneumoniae, a leading cause of bacterial diseases ranging from otitis media to pneumonia and sepsis. To gain insights into the vulnerable stages of its pathogenesis, researchers employed an infant mouse model of colonization, disease, and transmission, both with and without influenza A co-infection.The findings from this study revealed that during IAV co-infection, pneumococci must pass through single-cell bottlenecks during bloodstream invasion from the nasopharynx within the host and in transmission between hosts. These bottlenecks were not associated with genetic adaptation by the pathogen. The bottleneck in transmission occurred between bacterial exit from one host and establishment in another, explaining why the number of shed organisms in secretions is critical to overcoming it.These observations demonstrate how viral infection and TLR-dependent innate immune responses it stimulates play a role in bacterial contagion. By understanding these mechanisms, researchers can develop targeted intervention strategies to combat pneumococcal diseases, particularly in the context of co-infections.
 In this study, researchers investigated the interplay between transcription and alternative splicing in the gene expression pathway by deriving a transcription-splicing integrated network. The nodes of the network included human proteins belonging to three groups of regulators: transcription factors, splicing factors, and kinases. The nodes were wired by instances of predicted transcriptional and alternative splicing regulation. Analysis of the network indicated a pervasive cross-regulation among the nodes, specifically, splicing factors are significantly more connected by alternative splicing regulatory edges relative to the two other subgroups, while transcription factors are more extensively controlled by transcriptional regulation. Furthermore, splicing factors were found to be the most regulated of the three regulatory groups and are subject to extensive combinatorial control by alternative splicing and transcriptional regulation. Consistent with the network results, bioinformatics analyses showed that the subgroup of kinases has the highest density of predicted phosphorylation sites. Overall, the study reveals that an organizing principle in the logic of integrated networks favors the regulation of regulatory proteins by the specific regulation they conduct. Based on these results, the researchers propose a new regulatory paradigm postulating that gene expression regulation of the master regulators in the cell is predominantly achieved by cross-regulation.
 Carrion's disease, caused by Bartonella bacilliformis, is a neglected illness with high mortality rates, particularly in endemic areas where misdiagnosis and perpetuation of asymptomatic carriers are common. Conventional diagnostic tools, such as thin blood smear and clinical data, have limitations, and molecular diagnosis by PCR is considered the most reliable method. However, the detection limit and usefulness of PCR approaches for low bacteriemia cases are not clear.In this study, the detection limit of three PCR approaches for Bartonella-specific 16S rRNA, fla, and its genes was evaluated, along with the viability of dry blood spots as a sample transport system. The results showed that 16S rRNA PCR had the lowest detection limit, 5 CFU/μL, making it the best diagnostic tool for acute cases of Carrion's disease. However, the use of dry blood spots resulted in a slight decrease in sensitivity.The utility of PCR for detecting low-bacteriemic or asymptomatic carriers is uncertain, highlighting the need for more sensitive techniques. Overall, the findings of this study contribute to the development of improved diagnostic methods for Carrion's disease, which is crucial for accurate diagnosis and effective treatment.
 Schistosoma mansoni, the major causative agent of schistosomiasis, takes advantage of host signals to complete its development in the human body. One such signal is Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha (TNF-α), a human cytokine involved in skin inflammatory responses. Although the effect of TNF-α on the adult parasite's metabolism and egg-laying process has been previously studied, a comprehensive assessment of the TNF-α pathway and its downstream molecular effects is lacking.In this study, researchers describe the discovery of a possible TNF-α receptor (TNFR) homolog gene in S. mansoni, which they named SmTNFR. SmTNFR encodes a complete receptor sequence composed of 599 amino acids and contains four cysteine-rich domains, as described for TNFR members. Real-time RT-PCR experiments revealed that SmTNFR is most highly expressed in cercariae, 3.5 times higher than in adult worms.To simulate parasite exposure to human cytokine during penetration of the skin, schistosomula were exposed to human TNF-α just 3 hours after cercariae-to-schistosomula in vitro transformation. Large-scale gene expression measurements were performed using microarrays, and 548 genes with significantly altered expression were detected when compared to control parasites. Additionally, treatment of adult worms with TNF-α caused a significantly altered expression of 1857 genes.Interestingly, the set of genes altered in adults is different from that of schistosomula, with 58 genes in common, representing 3% of altered genes in adults and 11% in 3-hour-old early schistosomula. This study increases the number of known signaling pathways of the parasite and opens new perspectives into understanding the molecular components of TNF-α response and potentially interfering with parasite-host interaction.
 A proposed budget cut to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) funding for mosquito-borne diseases such as dengue and West Nile virus could leave the country unprepared to handle new emerging diseases and manage existing ones. In this study, we used a mathematical model to evaluate the impact of delayed control responses to a dengue epidemic in an economically developed urban environment, such as what could result from halted mosquito surveillance. Our findings demonstrate that halting mosquito surveillance can increase the management costs of epidemics by up to an order of magnitude compared to a strategy with sustained surveillance and early case detection. The total costs of preparedness through surveillance are far lower than the costs needed to respond to the introduction of vector-borne pathogens, emphasizing the need for improved and sustainable systems for vector-borne disease surveillance.
 Insulator elements are crucial for regulating transcription by preventing inappropriate enhancer-promoter interactions. CTCF, a zinc-finger protein, is well-studied in vertebrates as an enhancer-blocking factor, but its role in Drosophila has only recently been characterized. In Drosophila, only one endogenous CTCF binding location has been identified, the Fab-8 insulator in the Bithorax complex (BX-C). To identify additional CTCF binding sites, chromatin immunopurification coupled with genomic microarray analysis was conducted in representative regions of the Drosophila genome, including the Adh region, BX-C, and Antennapedia complex. This analysis enabled the construction of a robust CTCF binding-site consensus sequence and the identification of new CTCF binding sites, which correlate with boundaries of regulatory domains and suggest the existence of three additional presumptive insulator elements: Fab-2, Fab-3, and Fab-4. With the exception of Fab-7, the data indicate that CTCF is directly associated with all known or predicted insulators in the BX-C, suggesting that the functioning of these insulators involves a common CTCF-dependent mechanism. Comparison of the locations of CTCF sites with characterized Polycomb target sites and histone modification provides support for the domain model of BX-C regulation.
 Collective behavior is a widespread phenomenon in biology, from cell colonies to bird flocks and fish schools. The most prominent trait of collective behavior is the emergence of global order, where individuals synchronize their states, giving the impression that the group behaves as one. However, it is unclear whether global order is present in all biological systems, particularly in insect swarms whose erratic movements suggest that group formation may be a mere epiphenomenon of individual interactions with external landmarks.In this study, researchers experimentally investigated swarms of midges in the field and discovered that despite the lack of collective order, swarms display very strong correlations, incompatible with models of non-interacting particles. Correlation increases sharply with swarm density, indicating that the interaction between midges is based on a metric perception mechanism. By means of numerical simulations, the researchers demonstrated that such growing correlation is typical of a system close to an ordering transition.These findings suggest that correlation, rather than order, is the true hallmark of collective behavior in biological systems. The study provides new insights into the nature of collective behavior and its underlying mechanisms, which could have implications for various fields, including swarm control and the design of artificial swarm systems.
 In this study, researchers investigated the role of a cysteine protease inhibitor (ICP) in the Plasmodium parasite during its life cycle. The ICP is constitutively expressed and proteolytically processed throughout the parasite's life cycle, with the C-terminal chagasin-like domain being sufficient for inhibition of cysteine proteases. In sporozoites, PbICP co-localizes with the thrombospondin related anonymous protein (TRAP) in micronemes and is secreted by salivary gland sporozoites and young liver stage trophozoites. Previous results suggested that PbICP promotes hepatocyte invasion by sporozoites, but its function during liver stage development and egress from hepatocytes was not well understood.To better understand the function of PbICP during the entire life cycle of Plasmodium, the researchers employed a stage-specific knockout approach. They found that PbICP-negative parasites exhibited a clear attenuated phenotype in the blood stage, confirming an important role of cysteine protease regulation by PbICP in all major life cycle stages. Complementation of PbICP-deficient parasite clones with a pbicp-gfp construct reversed all knockout defects, confirming that the observed effects were indeed due to the lack of the inhibitor.The main phenotype associated with PbICP loss was detected in pre-erythrocytic stages, but PbICP-negative parasites also exhibited a mild attenuation in the blood stage. However, sporozoites lacking the inhibitor showed a strong phenotype; they were completely blocked in motility and thus could not transmigrate or invade cells. This finding suggests that the inhibitor plays an important role in sporozoite motility and invasion.In summary, this study provides new insights into the function of the Plasmodium cysteine protease inhibitor PbICP during the entire life cycle of the parasite. The findings confirm that the inhibitor plays an important role in sporozoite motility and invasion, liver stage development and egress from hepatocytes, and blood stage parasite development. The results also suggest that the inhibitor may play a role in regulating host cell cysteine proteases involved in cell death execution during liver stage development.
 Trypanosoma cruzi, the causative agent of Chagas' disease, has a surface coat predominantly composed of glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins. However, little is known about less abundant surface proteins and their role in host-parasite interactions. In this study, we describe a novel family of T. cruzi surface membrane proteins (TcSMP) that are conserved among different T. cruzi lineages and have orthologs in other Trypanosoma species. TcSMP genes are densely clustered within the genome, suggesting they could have originated by tandem gene duplication. TcSMP is a membrane-spanning protein located at the cellular surface and is released into the extracellular milieu. It exhibits the key elements typical of surface proteins and has been shown to inhibit metacyclic trypomastigote entry into host cells, trigger Ca2+ signaling, and lysosome exocytosis, events required for parasitophorous vacuole biogenesis. The effects of TcSMP are of lower magnitude compared to gp82, the major adhesion protein of metacyclic trypomastigotes, suggesting that TcSMP may play an auxiliary role in host cell invasion. We hypothesized that the productive interaction of T. cruzi with host cells that effectively results in internalization may depend on diverse adhesion molecules, and that the signaling induced by TcSMP may be additive to that triggered by the major surface molecule gp82, further increasing the host cell responses required for infection.
 Sindbis virus (SINV) is a mosquito-borne alphavirus that causes polyarthritis and rash in humans. In northern Europe, SINV outbreaks have been hypothesized to occur every seven years based on reported human cases. However, this hypothesis is based solely on reported cases and there is a need for an objective marker of SINV activity to further investigate the periodicity of outbreaks and the mechanisms behind them.To address this, we evaluated mosquito abundance and SINV prevalence in vector mosquitoes from an endemic area in central Sweden. Vector mosquitoes were collected in the River Dalälven floodplains during the years before, during, and after the hypothesized 2002 outbreak year. Obtained isolates were partially sequenced and analyzed using Bayesian maximum clade credibility and median joining network analysis.Only one SINV strain was recovered in 2001, and 4 strains in 2003, while 15 strains were recovered in 2002 with significantly increased infection rates in both the enzootic and bridge-vectors. The Maximum Likelihood Estimated infection rates were 10.0/1000 in the enzootic vectors Culex torrentium/pipiens, and 0.62/1000 in the bridge-vector Aedes cinereus, compared to 4.9/1000 and 0.0/1000 in 2001 and 0.0/1000 and 0.32/1000 in 2003. All isolates belonged to the SINV genotype I (SINV-I). The genetic analysis revealed local maintenance of four SINV-I clades in the River Dalälven floodplains over the years.Our findings suggest that increased SINV-I prevalence in vector mosquitoes constitutes the most valuable outbreak marker for further scrutinizing the hypothesized seven-year cycle of SINV-I outbreaks and the mechanisms behind. This information can be used to inform people about the risk for mosquito-borne SINV infection with good timing, allowing them to use protective clothes and repellents to reduce the number of mosquito bites and thereby decrease the risk for infection and disease.
 In this study, researchers aimed to estimate the costs of malaria in pregnancy (MiP) in the Brazilian Amazon region, where Plasmodium vivax predominantly causes malaria. They collected patient costs through exit surveys at a tertiary referral hospital and a primary healthcare center in Manaus, Amazonas state. They found that 96% of episodes were due to P. vivax and 4% to Plasmodium falciparum. The median costs from the patient perspective were estimated at US $45.91 for an outpatient consultation and US $216.29 for an admission. When multiple P. vivax infections during the same pregnancy were considered, patient costs increased up to US $335.85. Provider direct and overhead cost data were obtained from several sources. The provider cost associated with an outpatient case was US $103.51 for a P. vivax malaria episode and US $83.59 for a P. falciparum episode. The cost of an inpatient day and average admission of 3 days was US $118.51 and US $355.53, respectively. Total provider costs for the diagnosis and treatment of all malaria cases reported in pregnant women in Manaus in 2010 were US $17,038.50, of which 92.4% (US$ 15,741.14) were due to P. vivax infection. Despite being an area of low risk malaria transmission, MiP is responsible for a significant economic burden in Manaus, especially when multiple infections are considered, and costs associated with P. vivax are higher than costs associated with P. falciparum. The information generated from this study may help health policy decisions for the current control and future elimination of malaria in the area.
 Buruli ulcer (BU) is a severe skin disease caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium ulcerans. The disease can progress from a painless papule to an ulcerative form, and genetic factors are believed to play a role in susceptibility and progression. In this study, the authors investigated the association between genetic variants in three autophagy-related genes, NOD2, PARK2, and ATG16L1, and BU risk, severe phenotypes, and progression to an ulcerative form.The authors genotyped 208 BU patients, 70.2% of whom had an ulcerative form and 28% in the severe WHO category 3 phenotype, and 300 healthy endemic controls using KASPar chemistry. The rs1333955 SNP in PARK2 was significantly associated with increased susceptibility to BU (odds ratio [OR] = 1.43; P = 0.05). Additionally, both the rs9302752 and rs2066842 SNPs in NOD2 were significantly associated with increased predisposition to develop category 3 (OR = 2.23; P = 0.02 and OR = 12.7; P = 0.03, respectively). The rs2241880 SNP in ATG16L1 was found to significantly protect patients from presenting the ulcer phenotype (OR = 0.35; P = 0.02).These findings suggest that specific genetic variants in autophagy-related genes influence susceptibility to the development of BU and its progression to severe phenotypes. The authors propose that impairments in the autophagic process caused by these genetic variants may contribute to the risk and progression of M. ulcerans infection. Further research is needed to confirm these findings and to elucidate the underlying mechanisms.Keywords: Buruli ulcer, Mycobacterium ulcerans, autophagy, genetic variants, NOD2, PARK2, ATG16L1, susceptibility, severe phenotypes, progression.
 Schistosoma parasites, which cause schistosomiasis, are second only to malaria in terms of global impact among parasitic diseases. These parasites can survive in their hosts for decades, and it is essential to understand the developmental forces that promote their longevity. Schistosomes possess a population of somatic stem cells, called neoblasts, which appear to be the only proliferative somatic cell type and support the homeostatic renewal of tissues. However, it is unclear whether neoblasts serve other important functions in these parasites.To investigate this, researchers characterized the schistosome CBP/p300 homolog, Sm-cbp1. They found that depleting cbp1 transcript levels with RNA interference (RNAi) resulted in increased neoblast proliferation and cell death, eventually leading to organ degeneration. Based on these observations, they speculated that this increased rate of neoblast proliferation may be a response to mitigate tissue damage due to increased cell death.Furthermore, they found that mechanical injury induced both cell death and neoblast proliferation at wound sites, suggesting that schistosome neoblasts are capable of mounting proliferative responses to injury. Additionally, they observed that the health of cbp1 (RNAi) parasites progressively declined during the course of their in vitro experiments.To determine the fate of cbp1 (RNAi) parasites in the context of a mammalian host, they coupled RNAi with an established technique to transplant schistosomes into the mesenteric veins of uninfected mice. They found that transplanted cbp1 (RNAi) parasites were cleared from the vasculature of recipient mice and were incapable of inducing measurable pathology in their recipient hosts.Together, these data suggest that injury is sufficient to induce neoblast proliferation and that cbp1 is essential for parasite survival in vivo. These studies present a new methodology to study schistosome gene function in vivo and highlight a potential role for schistosome neoblasts in promoting tissue repair following injury.
 Sooty mangabeys (SM) are natural hosts for Simian Immunodeficiency Virus (SIVsmm), yet they do not develop AIDS despite robust virus replication. A novel SM CCR5 allele, containing a two base pair deletion (Δ2), was identified, encoding a truncated molecule that is not expressed on the cell surface and does not support SIV entry in vitro. This allele was present in 26% of a large SM colony and 8% of animals were homozygous for defective CCR5 alleles. CD8+ and CD4+ T cells displayed a gradient of CCR5 expression across genotype groups, which was highly significant for CD8+ cells. Remarkably, the prevalence of natural SIVsmm infection was not significantly different in animals lacking functional CCR5 compared to heterozygous and homozygous wild-type animals. Furthermore, animals lacking functional CCR5 had robust plasma viral loads, which were only modestly lower than wild-type animals. SIVsmm primary isolates infected both homozygous mutant and wild-type PBMC in a CCR5-independent manner in vitro, and Envs from both CCR5-null and wild-type infected animals used CXCR6, GPR15 and GPR1 in addition to CCR5 in transfected cells. These data suggest that SIVsmm tropism and host cell targeting in vivo is defined by the distribution and use of alternative entry pathways in addition to CCR5. The use of alternative entry pathways in vivo raises the possibility of novel CCR5-negative target cells that may be more expendable than CCR5+ cells, enabling the virus to replicate efficiently without causing disease in the face of extremely restricted CCR5 expression seen in SM and several other natural host species.
 In this study, researchers investigated the relationship between insulin signaling and female attractiveness in the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster. They found that insulin signaling in the fat body and ovarian follicle cells affects female sexual attractiveness, and functional ovaries are required for these effects. Manipulations of insulin signaling specifically in late follicle cells recapitulated the effects of global manipulations. Interestingly, insulin signaling in the fat body produced opposite effects on attractiveness, suggesting a competitive relationship with the ovary. All investigated tissue-specific insulin signaling manipulations that changed attractiveness also changed fecundity in the corresponding direction, indicating a link between fecundity and attractiveness cues. The cues themselves, cuticular hydrocarbons, responded distinctly to fat body and follicle cell manipulations, indicating independent readouts of the pathway activity from these two tissues. Overall, the study describes a system in which female attractiveness results from an apparent connection between attractiveness cues and an organismal state of high fecundity, both of which are created by lowered insulin signaling in the fat body and increased insulin signaling in late follicle cells.
 Leptospirosis is a bacterial disease caused by pathogenic members of the genus Leptospira. It can lead to a range of illnesses, from mild and non-specific to severe, with symptoms including jaundice, kidney and liver dysfunction, and widespread endothelial damage. The ability of Leptospira species to bind to host tissue components is necessary for infection and pathogenesis. While it is known that extracellular matrix components play a role in the interaction of the pathogen with host molecules, recent research has shown that pathogenic Leptospira binds more efficiently to host cells than to ECM components. Using in vitro phage display, researchers identified putative lipoproteins LIC10508 and LIC13411, and conserved hypothetical proteins LIC12341 and LIC11574, as candidate L. interrogans sv. Copenhageni st. Fiocruz L1–130 adhesins. Recombinant LIC11574 exhibited dose-dependent binding to both endothelial and epithelial cells, and both LIC11574 and LIC13411 bind to VE-cadherin, an endothelial cell receptor for L. interrogans. Extraction of bacteria with the non-ionic detergent Triton X-114 resulted in partitioning of the candidate adhesins to the detergent fraction, indicating that these proteins are outer membrane localized. All candidate adhesins were recognized by sera obtained from leptospirosis patients but not by sera from healthy individuals. These findings may be valuable in leptospirosis control and prevention, with the bacterial adhesins potentially serving as targets for development of diagnostics, therapeutics, and vaccines.
 Legionella pneumophila, a bacterium that causes Legionnaires' disease, uses a type IV secretion system to translocate effector proteins into host cells during infection. One such effector, LubX, functions as a U-box-type E3 ubiquitin ligase that targets another effector, SidH, for degradation. The delayed delivery of LubX to the host cytoplasm leads to the shutdown of SidH within the host cells at later stages of infection, demonstrating a sophisticated level of coevolution between the bacterium and the host. This is the first identified example of a "metaeffector," an effector protein that regulates the function of another effector within the host cell.
 In this study, researchers investigated the role of Arabidopsis MOB1A (AtMOB1A) in auxin-mediated development in Arabidopsis. AtMOB1A was found to be essential for the formation of cotyledons when combined with mutations in PINOID (PID), which encodes a Ser/Thr protein kinase involved in auxin signaling and transport. The results showed that AtMOB1A plays a key role in auxin-mediated plant development, as evidenced by its ability to rescue the developmental defects of ncp1/atmob1a mutants and its synergistic interactions with known auxin biosynthetic, transport, and signaling mutants. Additionally, disruption of AtMOB1A led to a decrease in sensitivity to auxin treatments and down-regulation of auxin reporters. Overall, this study provides evidence that AtMOB1A likely promotes auxin signaling, impacting various Arabidopsis developmental processes.
 Soil-transmitted helminths (STHs), including Ascaris lumbricoides, hookworm, and Trichuris trichiura, affect over a billion people, particularly in developing countries. Preventive chemotherapy, which involves administering anthelmintic drugs to at-risk populations, is the primary method of control. However, this strategy does not prevent reinfection. A systematic review and meta-analysis were conducted to assess patterns and dynamics of STH reinfection after drug treatment. The study identified 51 studies and 24 of these reported STH infection rates pre- and post-treatment. At 3, 6, and 12 months post-treatment, A. lumbricoides prevalence reached 26%, 68%, and 94% of pretreatment levels, respectively. For T. trichiura, respective reinfection prevalence were 36%, 67%, and 82%. Prevalence and intensity of reinfection were positively correlated with pretreatment infection status. STH reinfections occur rapidly after treatment, particularly for A. lumbricoides and T. trichiura. To maximize the benefit of preventive chemotherapy, frequent anthelmintic drug administrations are needed, along with integrated control approaches emphasizing health education and environmental sanitation to interrupt transmission.
 Rabies is a fatal disease that can be prevented through prompt post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP), which includes vaccine administration and, in some cases, rabies immunoglobulin (RIG). However, access to PEP is a challenge, particularly in resource-poor countries where vaccines may not be readily available or affordable. In this study, we analyzed different PEP vaccination regimens and their costs and benefits to both healthcare providers and bite victims. We found that ID administration of PEP vaccines, which requires smaller volumes of vaccine, can lead to significant savings and help mitigate vaccine shortages. We also propose financing mechanisms to make PEP more affordable and accessible, which could help subsidize the cost for those most in need and support new and existing rabies control and prevention programs. Our findings suggest that a universal switch to ID delivery of PEP could improve its affordability and accessibility, leading to a likely reduction in human rabies deaths and being economical for healthcare providers.
 Lymphatic filariasis (LF) is a disease that affects over 1 billion people in endemic areas, and Ghana is one such country where parts of the Greater Accra Region, including the capital city Accra, are endemic for LF. The Global Program to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis (GPELF) advocates for the treatment of entire endemic communities to achieve elimination targets. However, achieving the required treatment coverage in urban areas, such as Accra, is more complex than in rural areas.In Accra, mass drug administration (MDA) started in 2006, but coverage has always been below the 65% epidemiologic coverage needed to interrupt transmission. To identify reasons for poor treatment coverage and design strategies to improve MDA delivery in urban settings, a study was conducted in three districts in the Greater Accra region.The study identified various types of non-rural settings, social structures, stakeholders, and resources that could be employed for MDA in urban areas. Qualitative assessment, including in-depth interviews and focus group discussions with community leaders, community members, health providers, NGOs, and other stakeholders, was conducted in three phases: pre-intervention, intervention, and post-intervention.The outcomes from the study revealed that knowledge, attitudes, and practices of community members towards MDA improved slightly from the pre-intervention phase to the post-intervention phase in districts where interventions were readily implemented by health workers. Many factors, such as adequate leadership, funding, planning, and community involvement, were identified as being important in improving implementation and coverage of MDA in the study districts.Implementing MDA in urban areas requires significant consideration and planning if the required coverage rates are to be achieved. The recommendations and strategies for undertaking MDA in urban areas are presented in the paper.
 Dietary restriction (DR) is a well-known intervention that extends lifespan and delays age-related diseases in various species. The target of rapamycin (TOR) pathway is known to play a role in DR-induced longevity in flies, yeast, and worms. In Caenorhabditis elegans, the TOR pathway interacts with the regulatory associated protein of TOR (raptor) to regulate growth and metabolism in response to nutrients and growth factors. The TOR pathway promotes protein synthesis by activating S6K and inhibiting eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E-binding protein (4E-BP). Recent studies have shown that regulation of mRNA translation plays critical roles in lifespan determination in multiple species. In C. elegans, mutations in the TOR ortholog let-363 lead to developmental arrest and intestinal atrophy, and inhibition of let-363 by RNAi extends lifespan. However, it is still unclear whether TOR affects DR-mediated lifespan extension.Previous studies have shown that the transcription factor HIF-1 is a target of the TOR pathway in mammalian cells. HIF-1 is a heterodimeric transcriptional complex that plays essential roles in oxygen homeostasis, tumor formation, glucose metabolism, cell survival, and inflammatory response. In this study, we describe a novel role for HIF-1 in modulating lifespan extension by DR in C. elegans. We find that HIF-1 deficiency results in extended lifespan, which overlaps with that by inhibition of the RSKS-1/S6 kinase, a key component of the TOR pathway. Using a modified DR method based on variation of bacterial food concentrations on solid agar plates, we find that HIF-1 modulates longevity in a nutrient-dependent manner. The hif-1 loss-of-function mutant extends lifespan under rich nutrient conditions but fails to show lifespan extension under DR. Conversely, a mutation in egl-9, which increases HIF-1 activity, diminishes the lifespan extension under DR. This deficiency is rescued by tissue-specific expression of egl-9 in specific neurons and muscles. Increased lifespan by hif-1 or DR is dependent on the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress regulator inositol-requiring protein-1 (IRE-1) and is associated with lower levels of ER stress. Therefore, our results demonstrate a tissue-specific role for HIF-1 in the lifespan extension by DR involving the IRE-1 ER stress pathway.In summary, our study provides new insights into the role of HIF-1 in DR-induced lifespan extension in C. elegans. We demonstrate that HIF-1 functions downstream of S6K to modulate DR-dependent lifespan extension in specific neurons and muscles via the IRE-1 ER stress pathway. Our findings suggest that HIF-1 may be a potential target for interventions aimed at extending healthful lifespan and delaying age-related diseases in various species, including humans.
 Herpesviruses, including herpes simplex virus (HSV), cytomegalovirus (CMV), and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), are large DNA viruses that encode a complex network of proteins. While some of these proteins have been studied, many remain uncharacterized. To gain insights into their functions, researchers determined the subcellular localization of 234 epitope-tagged proteins from HSV, CMV, and EBV. They found that 24 of the 93 proteins with nuclear localization formed subnuclear structures, with 12 of these localizing to the nucleolus and 5 partially localizing with PML bodies. Additionally, two proteins disrupted Cajal bodies, and 19 of the nuclear proteins significantly decreased the number of PML bodies per cell, including six that were shown to be SUMO-modified. These results provide the first functional insights into over 120 previously unstudied proteins and suggest that herpesviruses employ multiple strategies for manipulating nuclear bodies that control key cellular processes.
 In this study, researchers investigated the role of transcription factors (TFs) in the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae, which causes rice blast disease and is a model pathosystem for understanding host-parasite interactions. They analyzed the expression patterns of 206 M. oryzae genes encoding TFs under 32 conditions, including infection-related developmental stages and various abiotic stresses, using quantitative real-time PCR. They focused on identifying the TF genes that are induced during the two most important infection-related morphogenetic changes: conidiation and infectious growth in rice. They identified 57 conidiation-specific TF genes and functionally characterized ten of them. Their data also showed that infectious growth in planta and oxidative stress responses in vitro involve largely overlapping groups of TFs. Comprehensive TF expression data and functional validation provided new insights into the regulatory mechanism underpinning pathogenicity and stress responses in M. oryzae. These data will also serve as a guide in studying the role of individual TF genes and the coordination of their expression in controlling development, pathogenicity, and abiotic stress responses in M. oryzae.
 Plasmodium falciparum malaria is responsible for nearly one million annual deaths worldwide. To better understand the pathogenesis of cerebral malaria, a study was conducted using various mouse models of experimental cerebral malaria (ECM). The researchers compared the effect of P. berghei ANKA, P. berghei NK65, P. yoelii 17XL, and P. yoelii YM on the integrity of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and the histopathology of the brain.The results showed that P. berghei ANKA infection caused neurological signs, cerebral hemorrhages, and BBB dysfunction in CBA/CaJ and Swiss Webster mice, while Balb/c and A/J mice were resistant. Surprisingly, P. berghei NK65 induced ECM in CBA/CaJ mice, while all other mice were resistant. P. yoelii 17XL and P. yoelii YM caused lethal hyperparasitemia in all mouse strains, but no histopathological alterations, BBB dysfunction, or neurological signs were observed.Intravital imaging revealed that infected erythrocytes containing mature parasites passed slowly through capillaries and made intimate contact with the endothelium, but did not arrest. Except for relatively rare microhemorrhages, mice with ECM presented no obvious histopathological alterations that would explain the widespread disruption of the BBB. However, intravital imaging did reveal that postcapillary venules, but not capillaries or arterioles, from mice with ECM exhibited platelet marginalization, extravascular fibrin deposition, CD14 expression, and extensive vascular leakage.Blockage of LFA-1 mediated cellular interactions prevented leukocyte adhesion, vascular leakage, neurological signs, and death from ECM. The endothelial barrier-stabilizing mediators imatinib and FTY720 inhibited vascular leakage and neurological signs and prolonged survival to ECM.The study suggests that neurological signs and coma in ECM are due to regulated opening of paracellular-junctional and transcellular-vesicular fluid transport pathways at the neuroimmunological BBB.
 High-altitude regions, such as the Andean Altiplano and the Tibetan Plateau, have presented unique challenges for human populations due to the decreased ambient oxygen tension, or high-altitude hypoxia. While the physiological adaptations of these populations have been well-studied, the underlying genetic basis remains unknown. In this study, we performed a genome scan to identify genes that show evidence of adaptation to high-altitude hypoxia in the Andean and Tibetan populations. We applied four population genetic statistics commonly used for detecting signatures of natural selection and identified selection-nominated candidate genes and gene regions in these two populations separately. Our results suggest that several key genes involved in oxygen sensing and regulation, such as EGLN1 (PHD2), are responsible for adaptation to high altitude in Andeans and Tibetans. Additionally, several different chromosomal regions are implicated in the putative response to selection. These data provide a basis for future genotype/phenotype association studies to confirm the role of selection-nominated candidate genes and gene regions in adaptation to high altitude. Overall, this study contributes to the understanding of the genetic mechanisms responsible for high-altitude adaptation and the genetic basis of human phenotypic diversity.
 Machupo virus (MACV) is the causative agent of Bolivian hemorrhagic fever (BHF), and Junin virus (JUNV) is the etiological agent of Argentine hemorrhagic fever (AHF), both being closely related arenaviruses. Previous studies have shown that a chimeric MACV (rMACV/Cd#1-GPC) expressing the glycoprotein from the Candid#1 (Cd#1) vaccine strain of JUNV is completely attenuated in a murine model and protects animals from lethal challenge with MACV. However, the attenuation of rMACV/Cd#1-GPC is not genetically stable, and a single F438I substitution in the transmembrane domain (TMD) of the glycoprotein complex (GPC) was found to be responsible for its attenuation. To investigate the requirement of different domains of Cd#1 GPC for successful attenuation of MACV, three rMACVs expressing the ectodomain of MACV GPC with or without the TMD F438I substitution were rescued and characterized. All rMACVs exhibited similar growth curves in cultured cells, but they displayed different outcomes in mice. The rMACV expressing only the ectodomain of MACV GPC (MCg1) showed significant reduction in lethality as compared with rMACV, and it was detected in brains and spleens of MCg1-infected mice, associated with tissue inflammation. On the other hand, all animals survived MCg2 and MCg3 infection without detectable levels of virus in various organs while producing neutralizing antibody against Cd#1. Overall, these data suggest that each GPC domain plays an indispensable role in the full attenuation and immunogenicity of rMACV/Cd#1-GPC.
 Dengue is a mosquito-borne viral infection that can cause a range of symptoms from mild fever to severe and potentially fatal hemorrhagic fever. Rapid and accurate diagnosis is important for clinical management, but current diagnostic methods have limitations. Serological tests for IgM and IgG antibodies are commonly used, but they may not detect early infections. Dengue non-structural protein 1 (NS1) has been identified as an early marker for acute dengue and is typically present between days 1-9 post-onset of illness. A new Panbio® Dengue Early Rapid test for NS1 was evaluated in combination with a commercial IgM/IgG rapid test in retrospective studies in Vietnam and Malaysia. The results showed that the sensitivity of the Dengue Early Rapid test was 69.2% and 68.9% in Vietnam and Malaysia, respectively, compared to RT-PCR. However, when used in combination with the IgM/IgG test, the sensitivity increased to 93.0%. The study highlights that using NS1 antigen detection in combination with anti-glycoprotein E IgM and IgG serology can significantly increase the sensitivity of acute dengue diagnosis and extend the possible window of detection to include very early acute samples. This can enhance the clinical utility of rapid immunochromatographic testing for dengue.
 Melioidosis is a bacterial infection caused by Burkholderia pseudomallei, which is commonly found in soil and water. Diabetes mellitus is the most significant risk factor for melioidosis, and prevention recommendations include avoiding direct contact with soil and water and drinking only boiled or bottled water. A multifaceted prevention program for melioidosis was evaluated in diabetic adults in Ubon Ratchathani, Thailand. Ten behavioral support groups were conducted using twelve behavior change techniques, including information about health consequences, commitment, and social support. Participants found the intervention beneficial, interesting, and engaging. The proportion of participants reporting that they always wore boots while working in rice fields increased from 30% to 77%, and the proportion drinking only boiled or bottled water increased from 43% to 86%. The program is highly acceptable to participants and can support behavior change. Policy makers should consider implementing the program in areas where melioidosis is endemic. Making calendars with individual photographs and self-pledges as a reminder tool could be a powerful component in behavior change interventions, and further research is needed on this component.
 Plasmodium falciparum malaria is responsible for nearly one million annual deaths worldwide. To better understand the progression of cerebral malaria in experimental models, researchers compared the effect of four different Plasmodium species on the integrity of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and histopathology of the brain. They found that P. berghei ANKA, a known model for experimental cerebral malaria (ECM), caused neurological signs, cerebral hemorrhages, and BBB dysfunction in CBA/CaJ and Swiss Webster mice, while Balb/c and A/J mice were resistant. Surprisingly, P. berghei NK65 also induced ECM in CBA/CaJ mice, while all other mice were resistant. P. yoelii 17XL and P. yoelii YM caused lethal hyperparasitemia in all mouse strains but did not exhibit neurological signs, histopathological alterations, or BBB dysfunction. Intravital imaging revealed that infected erythrocytes containing mature parasites passed slowly through capillaries and made intimate contact with the endothelium, but did not arrest. Mice with ECM presented no obvious histopathological alterations, but postcapillary venules from mice with ECM, but not hyperparasitemia, exhibited platelet marginalization, extravascular fibrin deposition, CD14 expression, and extensive vascular leakage. Blockage of LFA-1 mediated cellular interactions prevented leukocyte adhesion, vascular leakage, neurological signs, and death from ECM. The endothelial barrier-stabilizing mediators imatinib and FTY720 inhibited vascular leakage and neurological signs and prolonged survival to ECM. The findings suggest that neurological signs and coma in ECM are due to regulated opening of paracellular-junctional and transcellular-vesicular fluid transport pathways at the neuroimmunological BBB.
 This study investigated the role of households as foci of Dengue virus (DENV) infection in urban settings. In highly urban Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, researchers enrolled 71 index cases with suspected dengue and followed up with clusters of 25-35 household members and neighbors for 14 days. No excess risk of DENV infection was found within dengue case clusters compared to control clusters during the follow-up period. However, the prevalence of recent DENV infection at baseline was two-fold higher in case clusters than controls. Prevalence of DENV infection in Aedes aegypti was similar in case and control houses, and low overall. These findings suggest that household clustering of dengue risk exists but is at a short temporal scale rather than sustained chains of localized transmission. This implies that reactive perifocal insecticide spraying may have limited impact in this setting.
 This study investigates the role of post-translational modifications (PTMs) in protein complexes and their impact on cellular signaling. By integrating global acetylation, ubiquitination, and tyrosine or serine/threonine phosphorylation datasets with protein interaction data, hundreds of protein complexes that selectively accumulate each PTM were identified. A second layer of PTM coordination was found within these complexes, mediated by PTM integration (PTMi) spots. PTMi spots represent very dense modification patterns in disordered protein regions and showed an equally high mutation rate as functional protein domains in cancer, inferring equivocal importance for cellular functioning. Systematic PTMi spot identification highlighted more than 300 candidate proteins for combinatorial PTM regulation. This study reveals two global PTM coordination mechanisms and emphasizes dataset integration as requisite in proteomic PTM studies to better predict modification impact on cellular signaling.
 The Type IV Secretion System (T4SS) in Agrobacterium tumefaciens is a versatile bacterial system that can translocate both DNA and proteins to diverse taxa, including plants and eukaryotic cells. The VirB/D4 system of A. tumefaciens is a typical T4SS that facilitates the transfer of the VirD2-T-DNA complex and effector proteins into the host cell cytoplasm. Among these effector proteins are VirE2, VirE3, and VirF, which aid in the proper integration of the translocated DNA into the host genome.The VirD2-binding protein (VBP) is a key cytoplasmic protein that recruits the VirD2-T-DNA complex to the VirD4-coupling protein (VirD4 CP) of the VirB/D4 T4SS apparatus. In this study, the crystal structure and functional studies of the C-terminal domain of VBP were reported. This domain mainly consists of α-helices and forms a tight dimer. The structural analysis of this domain confirms the presence of a HEPN (higher eukaryotes and prokaryotes nucleotide-binding) fold.Biophysical studies show that VBP is a dimer in solution, and the HEPN domain is the dimerization domain. Substitution of key residues at the interface disrupts the dimerization of both the HEPN domain and full-length VBP. Furthermore, only dimeric VBP can interact with VirD2 and VirD4 CP, and only Agrobacterium harboring dimeric full-length VBP can induce tumors in plants.These findings shed light on the structural basis of the substrate recruiting function of VBP in the T4SS pathway of A. tumefaciens and in other pathogenic bacteria employing similar systems.
 Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common type of lung cancer and has a poor prognosis, especially in advanced stages. For patients with resectable NSCLC, the choice of preoperative chemotherapy is crucial to eliminate micrometastases and improve operability. In silico experiments can suggest the optimal treatment protocol based on the cytotoxic efficacy of different cisplatin-based doublet regimens. A mechanistic model of cancer response to treatment was applied to estimate the plausible value range of the cell killing efficacy of various chemotherapies. The model takes into account cancer-related mechanisms such as uncontrolled proliferation, population heterogeneity, hypoxia, and treatment resistance. The methodology is based on tumor volumetric data at two time points and considers the effect of tumor microenvironment and cell repopulation on treatment outcome. The sensitivity analysis identified the volume growth rate and growth fraction at diagnosis as key features for more accurate estimates. The methodology was applied to the retrospective data of 13 patients with NSCLC who received cisplatin in combination with gemcitabine, vinorelbine, or docetaxel in the neoadjuvant context. The selection of model input values was guided by a comprehensive literature survey on cancer-specific proliferation kinetics. The latin hypercube sampling was used to compensate for patient-specific uncertainties. The present work provides a quantitative framework for the estimation of the in-vivo cell-killing ability of various chemotherapies, which could serve as a basis for reliable personalized predictions based on the molecular profile of patients.
 The Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome (AHDS) is a genetic disorder characterized by severe psychomotor retardation, delayed development, muscle hypotonia, spastic paraplegia, and disturbed thyroid hormone (TH) parameters. AHDS is caused by mutations in the monocarboxylate transporter 8 (MCT8) gene, which is a TH transporter. To better understand the pathophysiological mechanisms of AHDS, researchers generated an MCT8 knockout (KO) zebrafish using zinc-finger nuclease (ZFN)-mediated targeted gene editing. The elimination of MCT8 decreased the expression levels of TH receptors, but failed to affect the expression of other TH-related genes. Similar to human patients, mct8−/− larvae exhibited neurological and behavioral deficiencies, including reduced locomotor activity, altered response to external light and dark transitions, increased sleep time, altered expression of myelin-related genes, and neuron-specific deficiencies in circuit formation. Time-lapse imaging of single-axon arbors and synapses in live mct8−/− larvae revealed a reduction in filopodia dynamics and axon branching in sensory neurons and decreased synaptic density in motor neurons. TH analogs restored the myelin and axon outgrowth deficiencies in mct8−/− larvae, suggesting a mechanism by which MCT8 regulates neural circuit assembly and mediating sensory and motor control of behavioral performance. The findings also propose that the administration of TH analogs early during embryo development can specifically reduce neurological damage in AHDS patients.
 In the study, researchers investigated the role of population subdivision in crossing fitness valleys or plateaus on a rugged fitness landscape. They focused on a minimal model that includes only population subdivision into equivalent demes connected by global migration. The researchers determined the optimal speedup of valley or plateau crossing that can be gained by subdivision, if the process is driven by the deme that crosses fastest. They found that isolated demes must be in the sequential fixation regime for subdivision to significantly accelerate crossing. The researchers obtained analytical expressions for the conditions under which optimal speedup is achieved and verified their predictions through stochastic simulations. They demonstrated that subdivision can significantly accelerate the crossing of fitness valleys and plateaus over a wide parameter range. The findings shed light on the quantitative conditions necessary for subdivision to facilitate progress up a rugged fitness landscape.
 The nuclear pore complex (NPC) is a crucial structure in the nuclear envelope that regulates the transport of molecules across it. The mechanism of this selective transport is still not fully understood, but it is known that hydrophobic interactions between karyopherins (kaps) and Phe-Gly (FG) repeat domains play a central role. In this study, a coarse-grained model of the NPC structure was established to mimic nucleocytoplasmic transport. The model predicts that the first-passage time of a 15 nm cargo-complex is about 2.6 ms and that it primarily interacts with the channel wall where it engages with the FG-layer. The kap-FG hydrophobic interaction is highly dynamic and fast, ensuring efficient translocation through the NPC. Almost all eight hydrophobic binding spots on kap-β are occupied simultaneously during transport. Cytoplasmic filaments-deficient NPCs show a high degree of permeability to inert cargos, implying their defining role in the selectivity barrier. The model provides a foundation for future works to examine different hypotheses about transport and to examine how various factors, such as molecular size and shape, hydrophobicity, and others, affect transport.
 Staphylococcus aureus is a common bacterium that can cause a range of infections, from minor skin irritations to life-threatening systemic infections. One feature of S. aureus infections is the formation of biofilms, which are communities of bacteria encased in a protective matrix. In this study, researchers discovered a new type of extracellular fibril structure in S. aureus biofilms, which promotes biofilm integrity. These fibers are made up of small peptides called phenol soluble modulins (PSMs), which have amyloid-like properties. Mutants unable to produce PSMs were more susceptible to biofilm disassembly, suggesting that the aggregation of PSMs into amyloid fibers modulates their biological activity. This discovery could lead to new approaches for treating persistent biofilm-associated infections.Introduction:Staphylococcus aureus is a versatile bacterium that can cause a wide range of infections, from minor skin irritations to life-threatening systemic diseases. One common feature of S. aureus infections is the formation of biofilms, which are communities of bacteria encased in a protective matrix. Biofilms are resilient to host immune response and antimicrobial therapies, making them a significant contributor to chronic S. aureus infections. The precise composition of the biofilm matrix varies depending on growth media and nutrient availability. In this study, researchers investigated how growth media affects the composition of the S. aureus biofilm matrix and made a surprising discovery.Background:Staphylococcus aureus is a gram-positive bacterium that is a leading cause of bacterial infections worldwide. It can colonize the skin and mucosal surfaces of mammals and cause a range of diseases, from relatively benign skin conditions to fatal systemic infections. Persistent S. aureus infections often involve surface-associated communities called biofilms, which are multicellular structures encased in a matrix of proteins, polysaccharides, extracellular DNA, and other environmental factors. Biofilms are resistant to host immune response and chemotherapies, making them a significant contributor to chronic S. aureus infections. The precise composition of the biofilm matrix varies greatly by strain, physiological state, and nutrient availability.Research Findings:In this study, researchers grew S. aureus in a non-standard rich media and observed the formation of extracellular fibril structures in the biofilm. These fibers share morphological and biophysical characteristics with functional bacterial amyloids, such as curli in Escherichia coli biofilms, TasA of Bacillus subtilis, and the Fap fimbriae in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Biochemical and genetic analysis revealed that these fibril structures are composed of small peptides called phenol soluble modulins (PSMs). Mutants unable to produce PSMs were more susceptible to biofilm disassembly by matrix degrading enzymes and mechanical stress. Previous work has demonstrated that PSMs are surfactant-like peptides that promote biofilm disassembly, exhibit antimicrobial activity against niche bacteria, hinder host immune response, and are abundant virulence factors produced by community-associated MRSA strains. However, the significance of PSMs has only recently been investigated because the coding sequences of the αpsm & βpsm peptides are small enough to have eluded detection by conventional gene annotation programs and are still poorly annotated in public databases.The researchers found that ordered aggregation of PSM peptides into amyloid-like fibers can abrogate the biofilm disassembly activity ascribed to monomeric PSM peptides. This suggests that PSMs can modulate biofilm disassembly using amyloid-like aggregation as a control point for their activity. This is the first report to identify and characterize extracellular fimbriae in the S. aureus biofilm, and the findings could lead to new approaches for treating persistent biofilm-associated infections.Conclusion:In conclusion, this study reports the discovery of a novel extracellular fibril structure in S. aureus biofilms, which promotes biofilm integrity. These fibers are made up of small peptides called phenol soluble modulins (PSMs), which have amyloid-like properties. Mutants
 Buruli ulcer (BU) is a severe skin disease caused by Mycobacterium ulcerans. The disease progression and susceptibility to BU are influenced by genetic variants in autophagy-related genes, specifically NOD2, PARK2, and ATG16L1. The rs1333955 SNP in PARK2 was found to significantly increase susceptibility to BU, while both the rs9302752 and rs2066842 SNPs in NOD2 and the rs2241880 SNP in ATG16L1 were found to significantly protect patients from presenting the ulcer phenotype. These findings suggest that specific genetic variants in autophagy-related genes influence susceptibility to the development of BU and its progression to severe phenotypes.
 Burkholderia pseudomallei, a mostly saprophytic bacterium, can cause the serious disease melioidosis in humans. Despite proper diagnosis and treatment, mortality rates for melioidosis patients range from 10-40%. It was previously assumed that B. pseudomallei uses common iron-acquisition systems, such as siderophores, to survive within its hosts. However, recent findings suggest that other iron-acquisition systems may contribute to virulence.In this study, researchers deleted the major siderophore malleobactin and pyochelin gene clusters in strain 1710b and found a residual siderophore activity unrelated to other known Burkholderia siderophores. They also discovered that Hmu is required for utilization of hemin and hemoglobin, and that Hem cannot complement a Hmu deficiency. Prolonged incubation of a hmu hem mutant in hemoglobin-containing minimal medium yielded variants able to utilize hemoglobin and hemin, suggesting alternate pathways for utilization of these two host iron sources. Lactoferrin utilization was dependent on malleobactin but not pyochelin synthesis and/or uptake. A mba pch hmu hem quadruple mutant could use ferritin as an iron source and was lethal in an acute murine melioidosis model.These data suggest that B. pseudomallei may employ a novel ferritin-iron acquisition pathway as a means to sustain in vivo growth. Understanding the contribution of iron acquisition systems to B. pseudomallei virulence is crucial for developing effective therapeutic interventions and controlling the spread of this emerging pathogen.
 Schistosoma mansoni, a parasitic worm, can cause sensitization in unborn children through in-utero exposure. This sensitization may impact their immune response to schistosome infection and associated morbidity. However, the effects of praziquantel treatment of S. mansoni during pregnancy on the risk of S. mansoni infection and immune responsiveness in offspring are unknown. In a study conducted in Uganda, offspring of women treated with praziquantel or placebo during pregnancy were examined for S. mansoni infection and immune responses at age five years. Of the 1343 children examined, 32 (2.4%) had S. mansoni infection based on a single stool sample. Infection prevalence did not differ between children of treated or untreated mothers. However, cytokine (IFNγ, IL-5, IL-10, and IL-13) and antibody (IgG1, Ig4, and IgE) responses to SWA and SEA, and FoxP3 expression, were higher among infected than uninfected children. Praziquantel treatment of S. mansoni during pregnancy had no effect on immune responses, except for IL-10 responses to SWA, which were higher in offspring of women who received praziquantel during pregnancy than those who did not. No evidence was found that maternal S. mansoni infection and its treatment during pregnancy influence prevalence and intensity of S. mansoni infection or effector immune response to S. mansoni infection among offspring at age five years. However, the observed effects on IL-10 responses to SWA suggest that maternal S. mansoni and its treatment during pregnancy may affect immunoregulatory responsiveness in childhood schistosomiasis. This may have implications for the pathogenesis of the disease.
 Hox proteins are essential regulators of morphogenesis along the anterior-posterior axis of animals, controlling distinct sets of target genes to achieve high regulatory specificity. While it is postulated that Hox proteins cooperate with other transcription factors to activate or repress their target genes in a context-specific manner, only a few of these factors have been identified. In this study, we analyzed the regulation of the cell death gene reaper (rpr) by the Hox protein Deformed (Dfd) and suggest that local activation of rpr expression in the anterior part of the maxillary segment is achieved through a combinatorial interaction of Dfd with at least eight functionally diverse transcriptional regulators on a minimal enhancer. This finding suggests that context-dependent combinations of Hox proteins and other transcription factors on small, modular Hox response elements (HREs) could be responsible for proper spatio-temporal expression of Hox targets. Therefore, a large number of transcription factors are likely to be directly involved in Hox target gene regulation in vivo.
 The complex interactions between drugs and their targets within the microenvironment of a cell are not defined by simple diffusion and intrinsic chemical reactivity. Non-specific interactions between drugs and macromolecules, which are rarely considered in assessing pharmacodynamics, can lead to very slow incorporation kinetics of DNA binding drugs. This slow incorporation, however, has an advantageous consequence: it leads to virtually irreversible binding of the drug to specific DNA targets in cells.Using a monolayer cell culture system, researchers have demonstrated that non-specific interactions manifest as slow drug diffusion, resulting in slow reaction front propagation. They have also studied the effect of non-specific interactions in different cellular compartments by permeabilizing plasma and nuclear membranes to pinpoint differential compartment effects on variability in intracellular drug kinetics.These findings provide the basis for a comprehensive model of the determinants of intracellular diffusion of small-molecule drugs, their target-seeking trajectories, and the consequences of these processes on the apparent kinetics of drug-target interactions. Understanding these complex interactions is crucial for developing more effective drugs and improving our overall understanding of pharmacodynamics.
 Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) is a crucial mechanism by which bacteria increase genetic diversity, and the acquisition of new DNA can provide advantages for host colonization. However, the incorporation of foreign DNA may also pose a challenge for the regulation of the core genome, leading to a significant fitness cost. The H-NS protein is an efficient mechanism for controlling the expression of foreign DNA, as it targets both core and HGT genes. However, H-NS discriminates and differentially modulates these two types of DNA. For example, plasmid R27-encoded H-NS protein selectively silences HGT genes and does not interfere with core genome regulation. This selective silencing requires the helper protein Hha, which forms H-NS-Hha complexes to tightly silence HGT DNA. In contrast, core genes are modulated by H-NS homoligomers. The capacity to selectively discriminate between core and HGT DNA may help maintain horizontally transmitted DNA in silent form and give these bacteria a competitive advantage in adapting to new environments, including host colonization. The H-NS system in enteric bacteria presents unique evolutionary features, as the presence of Hha-like proteins is restricted to the Enterobacteriaceae family, and conjugative plasmids encoding H-NS variants have only been isolated from members of this family.
 Buruli ulcer is a severe skin disease caused by Mycobacterium ulcerans. Autophagy, a cellular process that contributes to the intracellular control of intracellular pathogens, plays a critical role in immunity to mycobacterial infections. Since mycolactone, the exotoxin produced by M. ulcerans, affects microtubules and dynein, which are important for autophagosome-lysosome fusion, cytoskeleton-related changes might potentially impair the autophagic process and impact the risk and progression of M. ulcerans infection. In this study, we investigated the association of genetic variants in the autophagy-related genes NOD2, PARK2, and ATG16L1 with susceptibility to Buruli ulcer and its severe phenotypes. We genotyped these variants in 208 Buruli ulcer patients and 300 healthy endemic controls. The rs1333955 SNP in PARK2 was significantly associated with increased susceptibility to Buruli ulcer, while the rs9302752 and rs2066842 SNPs in NOD2 and the rs2241880 SNP in ATG16L1 were found to significantly protect patients from presenting the ulcer phenotype. Our findings indicate that specific genetic variants in autophagy-related genes influence susceptibility to Buruli ulcer and its progression to severe phenotypes.
 Linear Mixed Models (LMMs) have gained popularity for modeling population substructure and relatedness in genome-wide association studies (GWAS). However, there are several LMM methods and software packages available, and it can be unclear how they differ. In this study, we compared the performance of several LMM approaches, including EMMAX, GenABEL, FaST-LMM, Mendel, GEMMA, and MMM, through their application to a GWAS of visceral leishmaniasis in 348 Brazilian families. We investigated sensitivity to different choices and the success of the approaches in controlling the overall genome-wide error rate for both real and simulated phenotypes. We also compared the LMM results to traditional family-based association tests and alternative approaches. We found strong concordance between the results from different LMM approaches and all were successful in controlling the genome-wide error rate, except for some approaches when applied naively to longitudinal data with many repeated measures. We also found high correlation between LMMs and alternative approaches, apart from transmission-based approaches when applied to SNPs with small or non-existent effects. Overall, LMM approaches perform well in comparison to competing approaches, and the choice of precise LMM implementation cannot be based on power or type I error considerations but must instead be based on considerations such as speed and ease-of-use.
 Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder with both genetic and environmental factors contributing to its development. Over the past 20 years, more than 800 genetic association studies have been conducted to identify the genetic risk factors for PD. However, the results from these studies have been inconsistent, making it challenging to interpret the findings. To address this issue, researchers have created an online resource called PDGene, which comprehensively collects and meta-analyzes all published studies in the field.The study involved a systematic literature screen of over 27,000 articles, which yielded 828 eligible articles. Relevant data were extracted from these articles, and individual-level data from three publicly available genome-wide association studies (GWAS) were obtained and subjected to genotype imputation and analysis. The researchers performed meta-analyses on over seven million polymorphisms, originating either from GWAS datasets or smaller scale PD association studies.Eleven loci showed genome-wide significant (P<5×10−8) association with disease risk: BST1, CCDC62/HIP1R, DGKQ/GAK, GBA, LRRK2, MAPT, MCCC1/LAMP3, PARK16, SNCA, STK39, and SYT11/RAB25. In addition, a novel PD susceptibility locus in a gene called ITGA8 (rs7077361, P=1.3×10−8) was identified.PDGene provides an exhaustive and up-to-date summary of the status of PD genetics research, which can be readily scaled to include the results of future large-scale genetics projects, including next-generation sequencing studies. The database is freely available online (www.pdgene.org) and is cross-linked with a customized track on the UCSC Genome Browser.
 In the present study, researchers investigated the link between toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and FcγRIII in vitro and in vivo. TLR4 is essential for recognizing bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and triggering the immune response, while FcγRIII is involved in the clearance of immune complexes by binding to the Fc domain of immunoglobulins. The findings suggest that TLR4 and FcγRIII pathways are structurally and functionally connected, and TLR4 is indispensable for FcγRIII signaling via FcRγ-subunit activation.TLR4 and FcγRIII are important regulators of immune responses, and recent evidence suggests that there is indirect interaction between their pathways. TLR4 has been shown to up-regulate FcγR expression in experimental immune complex arthritis, and inhibition of TLR4 resulted in attenuation of in vivo cytokine release in models of glomerulonephritis and rheumatoid arthritis.In the present study, researchers found that TLR4 physically interacts with FcγRIII in the presence of IgG immune complexes (IgGIC) but not LPS. This interaction was confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation analyses. Neutrophils and macrophages from TLR4 mutant (mut) mice were unresponsive to either LPS or IgGIC in vitro, as determined by cytokine production. This phenomenon was accompanied by the inability to phosphorylate tyrosine residues within immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs (ITAMs) of the FcRγ-subunit.To transfer these findings in vivo, two different models of acute lung injury (ALI) induced by intratracheal administration of either LPS or IgGIC were employed. As expected, LPS-induced ALI was abolished in TLR4 mut and TLR4−/− mice. Unexpectedly, TLR4 mut and TLR4−/− mice were also resistant to development of ALI following IgGIC deposition in the lungs.In conclusion, the findings from this study provide new insights into the interplay between innate and adaptive immunity and suggest that TLR4 and FcγRIII pathways are structurally and functionally connected at the receptor level and post-receptor signaling pathways. These findings have important implications for our understanding of the regulation of immune responses and the development of new therapeutic strategies for the treatment of immune-mediated diseases.
 In this study, researchers aimed to compare the prevalence of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (MTBc) lineages between direct genotyping on sputum and indirect genotyping on culture, and to evaluate potential culture bias against difficult growers. Sputum samples from new tuberculosis patients in Cotonou, Benin, were used before they started treatment. Direct spoligotyping on sputum yielded a pattern in 98.5% of specimens, while indirect spoligotyping on cultures yielded a pattern in only 73.4%. There was good agreement between sputum- and isolate-derived patterns at both the spoligotype and (sub) lineage levels. However, two pairs of samples with discrepant patterns were suggestive of mixed infections in sputum. Ancestral lineages, especially M. africanum West African 1 (Lineage 5), were less likely to grow in culture relative to modern lineages, especially M. tuberculosis Euro-American (Lineage 4). Direct spoligotyping on smear-positive sputum is effective and efficient compared to indirect spoligotyping of cultures, allowing for a more accurate and unbiased determination of the population structure of the M. tuberculosis complex. ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02744469.
 Neurons have distinct molecular compositions and functional properties in their axons and dendrites, which are essential for shaping neuronal form and function. However, the molecular processes that mediate polarized targeting of neuronal proteins are not well understood. In this study, researchers discovered that Myosin VI, a minus-end-directed motor, plays a crucial role in the enrichment of proteins on the surface of axons. By engineering non-neuronal proteins to interact with Myosin VI, they found that these proteins become highly concentrated at the axonal surface in dissociated rat cortical neurons. Disruption of Myosin VI function or expression leads to aberrant dendritic localization of axonal proteins. Myosin VI mediates the enrichment of proteins on the axonal surface by stimulating dendrite-specific endocytosis, a mechanism that has been shown to underlie the localization of many axonal proteins. Additionally, a version of Channelrhodopsin 2 engineered to bind to Myosin VI is concentrated at the surface of the axon in mice in vivo, suggesting it could be a useful tool for probing circuit structure and function. Overall, these results indicate that myosins help shape the polarized distributions of both axonal and dendritic proteins.
 The consensus that complex ecosystems lead to stability has been a topic of debate in ecology for decades. However, recent analyses have shown that the assumption of a feasible equilibrium, which is necessary for local stability criteria, is not always granted in complex systems. In this study, we provide analytical results and simulations that demonstrate the disappearance of equilibrium feasibility in species-rich systems. Our findings suggest that a better understanding of ecosystem dynamics requires focusing on the interplay between interaction strength and network architecture. We find that weak interactions can increase stability for mutualistic and competitive webs but decrease stability for food webs. Our results also indicate that more realistic structures may be detrimental for stability and that the structure alone plays a minor role compared to interaction weights. The feasibility of equilibria, which is a prerequisite for local stability analysis, has been largely overlooked in previous works. We present an extensive study of this fundamental question and show that the existence of a feasible equilibrium is not guaranteed in complex systems. Our findings provide important insights into the relationship between complexity and stability in ecological systems.
 Vibrio cholerae is a bacterial pathogen that causes cholera in humans and colonizes both marine chitinous exoskeletons and the human gastrointestinal tract. The bacterium uses an N-acetylglucosamine binding protein, GbpA, to mediate attachment to both chitin and mucin through an unknown mechanism. In this study, we report the structural characterization of GbpA, revealing an elongated four-domain structure with domains 1 and 4 showing structural homology to chitin binding domains. A glycan screen revealed that GbpA binds to GlcNAc oligosaccharides. Truncation mutants and in vivo complementation studies showed that domains 1 and 4 of GbpA interact with chitin in vitro and are crucial for mucin binding and intestinal colonization. Domains 2 and 3 bind to the V. cholerae surface. Mouse virulence assays showed that only the first three domains of GbpA are required for colonization. These results explain how GbpA provides structural and functional modular interactions between V. cholerae, intestinal epithelium, and chitinous exoskeletons.
 In a recent study, researchers analyzed over 400 publicly available RNA-seq datasets from Archaea and Bacteria to identify potential noncoding RNAs and assess their phylogenetic distribution. They discovered that the capacity to identify noncoding RNA outputs is strongly dependent on phylogenetic sampling. The results showed that effective transcriptomics requires phylogeny-aware sampling, as the phylogenetic window for the effective use of comparative methods for noncoding RNA identification is perversely narrow. The researchers suggest that sequencing clusters of related microbes will generate the greatest benefit for RNA element identification. This study highlights the importance of considering phylogeny in transcriptomics research to fully realize its potential.
 Chagas disease, caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi, is a major public health concern, particularly in Central and South America, where it affects around 120 million people. Current treatments, such as benznidazole and nifurtimox, have toxic side effects and limited efficacy, and there is no drug available for the chronic stage of the disease. In this study, researchers developed a high-throughput screening assay using a recombinant T. cruzi strain expressing β-galactosidase to identify compounds that inhibit infection of mammalian cells by T. cruzi trypomastigotes. Three hits were selected based on their high activity against T. cruzi and low toxicity to host cells: PCH1, NT1, and CX1. Each of these compounds has a different mechanism of action against intracellular amastigotes, with CX1 showing strong trypanocidal activity, which is essential for the development of drugs against the chronic stage of Chagas disease. The study also identified two additional compounds, PCH6 and CX2, which have IC50 values approximately 100 times lower than current medicines. These results provide new candidate molecules for the development of treatments against Chagas disease and related kinetoplastid species Leishmania major and L. amazonensis.
 Bistability is a crucial property of gene regulatory networks (GRNs) that underlies various essential biological functions, including cellular differentiation and cell cycle control. However, identifying the network topologies capable of exhibiting bistability is a significant challenge due to the vast number of possible GRNs. In this study, we employed chemical reaction network theory (CRNT) to systematically survey over 40,000 simple two-gene GRNs and identified nearly 90% of them as having the capacity for bistability. This finding highlights the ease with which switch-like behavior arises in GRNs and suggests that it is not easily lost during network evolution. The results of this study demonstrate the relevance of CRNT in identifying bistable network topologies in real biological systems.
 Lymphatic filariasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by parasitic worms that can lead to severe lymphedema and elephantiasis. While the adaptive immune response is important for the development of irreversible lymphatic damage, recent studies suggest that filarial parasites and their antigens can also directly influence lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs) and cause lymphatic dilatation and dysfunction. In this study, researchers exposed human LECs to filarial antigens, live parasites, or infected patient serum and found that live filarial parasites or filarial antigens induced significant LEC proliferation and differentiation into tube-like structures in vitro. Additionally, serum from infected patients and those with chronic lymphatic obstruction induced increased LEC proliferation compared to uninfected individuals. The differentiation of LEC into tube-like networks was associated with increased levels of matrix metalloproteases and inhibition of their TIMP inhibitors. Comparison of global gene expression in LEC exposed to live parasites versus parasite-unexposed LEC demonstrated that filarial parasites altered the expression of genes involved in cellular organization and development as well as junction adherence pathways, which decreased trans-endothelial transport. These findings suggest that filarial parasites directly induce lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic differentiation and provide insight into the mechanisms underlying the pathology seen in lymphatic filariasis.
 In this study, researchers investigated the differences in the detection of anti-Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) IgM antibodies using two in-house MAC-ELISA assays, a commercially-available CTK lateral flow rapid test, and EUROIMMUN IFA assays. The researchers found that the sensitivities and specificities of the different assays varied between two outbreaks of CHIKV in Singapore.The first outbreak occurred in January 2008 and the second outbreak occurred from May to September 2008. The viruses isolated from these two outbreaks were related to the ECSA genotype, but the viruses from the first outbreak had alanine at amino acid residue 226 of the E1 glycoprotein (CHIKV-A226), while the viruses from the second outbreak had valine at the same residue (CHIKV-226V).The researchers found that the sensitivities of the two PCR protocols also varied. For sera from the January outbreak, the average detection threshold of CTK lateral flow test, MAC-ELISAs, and EUROIMMUN IFA assays was 3.75, 4.38, and 4.88 days post fever onset, respectively. However, IgM detection using CTK lateral flow test was delayed to more than 7 days after fever onset in the second outbreak sera. MAC-ELISA using CHIKV-226V detected IgM in the second outbreak sera 3.96 days after fever onset, which was approximately one day earlier compared to the same assay using CHIKV-A226 (4.86 days). The specificity was 100% for both commercial assays and 95.6% for the in-house MAC-ELISAs.The findings suggest that the two strains of CHIKV using variants A226 and 226V resulted in variation in sensitivities of the assays evaluated. The researchers postulated that the observed difference in antigen efficacy could be due to the amino acid substitution differences in viral E1 and E2 envelope proteins, especially the E1-A226V substitution.The evaluation demonstrates the importance of appraisal of different diagnostic assays before their application in clinical and operational settings.
 In the complex world of bacterial gene regulation, the OmpR protein stands out as a versatile player capable of governing diverse gene networks. Despite being identical in amino acid sequence between Salmonella Typhimurium and Escherichia coli, the regulatory specialization of OmpR has led to different environmental triggers and largely divergent OmpR regulons. Specifically, ompR mRNA and OmpR protein levels are elevated by acid pH in S. Typhimurium but not in E. coli. This differential expression pattern is due to differences in the promoter regions of the ompR genes and the ability of OmpR to bind best to DNA that has adopted a relaxed topology. The OmpR regulon in S. Typhimurium overlaps that of E. coli at only 15 genes and includes many horizontally acquired genes, some of which are key to S. Typhimurium virulence. The ability of OmpR to recruit additional genes to its regulon arises from its modest requirements for specificity in its DNA targets and its preference for relaxed DNA, allowing it to cooperate with DNA-topology-based allostery to modulate transcription in response to acid stress.
 Two-component signaling systems are essential for bacteria to adapt to changing environments by sensing and responding to external stimuli. Traditional signaling systems involve a sensory histidine kinase that phosphorylates a conserved aspartate (Asp) residue in a receiver (REC) domain. However, some REC domains lack this phosphorylatable Asp residue, and it is unclear how many of these divergent REC domains exist, what their functional roles are, and how they are regulated in its absence. In this study, we compiled all deposited REC domains missing their phosphorylatable Asp residue and renamed them as Aspartate-Less Receiver (ALR) domains. Our data shows that ALRs are surprisingly common and are enriched for when attached to more rare effector outputs. Analysis of ALR atomic structures and available data suggests that ALRs have reorganized their active pockets to instead take on a constitutive regulatory role or accommodate input signals other than Asp phosphorylation, while largely retaining the canonical post-phosphorylation mechanisms and dimeric interface. This work defines ALRs as an atypical REC subclass and provides insights into shared mechanisms of activation between ALR and REC domains.
 The bacterial protein DnaA plays a crucial role in initiating the replication cycle by binding to specific sites within the origin of the DNA. However, it is unclear whether the accumulation of DnaA triggers the initiation process or if it functions as a motor that drives the initiation process but requires other factors for precise timing. In this study, cells with an excess of DnaA were analyzed to determine if initiation occurs earlier. Contrary to expectations, no changes in the timing of replication were observed, suggesting that the accumulation of DnaA does not control the time of initiation. Instead, other factors are likely involved in the precise timing of initiation in response to the cell's environment. Additionally, the roles of datA-dependent DnaA inactivation (DDAH) and the DnaA-binding protein DiaA were investigated. Loss of DDAH affected the cell cycle machinery only during slow growth and made it sensitive to the concentration of DiaA protein, indicating that compromised cell cycle machines perform in a less robust manner. Overall, these findings provide insights into the complex regulation of bacterial replication initiation and suggest that the DnaA protein is the motor that drives the initiation process but requires other factors for precise timing.
 The rat demyelination (dmy) mutation is a unique model system to study myelin maintenance in the central nervous system (CNS) as it causes severe myelin breakdown after normal postnatal completion. Through positional cloning, we identified a G-to-A transition in the Mrs2 (MRS2 magnesium homeostasis factor) gene, which resulted in a novel splice acceptor site and functional inactivation of the mutant allele. Transgenic rescue with wild-type Mrs2-cDNA confirmed our findings. Mrs2 encodes an essential component of the major Mg2+ influx system in mitochondria of yeast and human cells. Dmy/dmy rats exhibit major mitochondrial deficits, including a markedly elevated lactic acid concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid, a 60% reduction in ATP, and increased numbers of mitochondria in the swollen cytoplasm of oligodendrocytes. MRS2-GFP recombinant BAC transgenic rats showed that MRS2 is dominantly expressed in neurons rather than oligodendrocytes and is localized in the inner membrane of mitochondria. Our observations suggest that dmy/dmy rats suffer from a mitochondrial disease and that Mg2+ homeostasis in CNS mitochondria is essential for myelin maintenance.
 Leishmaniasis is a disease caused by the protozoan parasite Leishmania, affecting approximately 12 million people worldwide. Leishmania amazonensis is a common agent of the disease in Brazil, leading to clinical forms ranging from localized to diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis. In this study, researchers compared the proteomes of amastigotes isolated from BALB/c and BALB/c nude mice to understand how the host immune response affects Leishmania proteins and virulence. Among the 44 differentially expressed spots, there were proteins related to oxidative/nitrosative stress and proteases, some of which correspond to known Leishmania virulence factors such as OPB and tryparedoxin peroxidase. Specific isoforms of these proteins were increased in parasites from nude mice, suggesting that T cells may restrain their posttranslational modifications in BALB/c mice. Conversely, an isoform of HSP70 was increased in amastigotes from BALB/c mice. The findings of this study may help identify potential virulence factors and ways of regulating their expression.
 In this study, researchers investigated the mechanisms behind the disappearance of the seventh abdominal segment (A7) in Drosophila males. They found that at early pupal stages, there is a down-regulation of EGFR activity and fewer histoblasts in the male A7, leading to a small segment in the adult. At later stages, the remaining precursors of the A7 are extruded under the epithelium, requiring the up-regulation of the HLH protein Extramacrochetae and high levels of spaghetti-squash, the gene encoding the regulatory light chain of non-muscle myosin II. The Hox gene Abdominal-B controls both the down-regulation of spitz, a ligand of the EGFR pathway, and the up-regulation of extramacrochetae, and also regulates the transcription of the sex-determining gene doublesex. The male Doublesex protein, in turn, controls extramacrochetae and spaghetti-squash expression. In females, the EGFR pathway is also down-regulated in the A7, but extramacrochetae and spaghetti-squash are not up-regulated, and extrusion of precursor cells is almost absent. The results demonstrate the complex orchestration of cellular and genetic events that lead to this important sexually dimorphic character change.
 Scabies is a common but neglected infectious disease, and current treatments, including topical agents and oral ivermectin, are insufficient and face emerging drug resistance. Moxidectin, a macrocyclic lactone with more advantageous pharmacological profiles, may be a promising alternative. In a porcine scabies model, 12 pigs were randomly assigned to receive a single oral dose of moxidectin (MOX) or two doses of ivermectin (IVM) or no treatment. MOX was found to be more effective than IVM, with 100% efficacy and long-lasting effects, while IVM had a 62% efficacy rate that declined over time. MOX persisted in plasma and skin for significantly longer than IVM, covering the mite's entire life cycle. These findings support MOX as a potential therapeutic approach for scabies.
 Melioidosis is a bacterial infection caused by Burkholderia pseudomallei, which is commonly found in soil and water. Diabetes mellitus is the most significant risk factor for melioidosis, and prevention recommendations include avoiding direct contact with soil and water and drinking only boiled or bottled water. A multifaceted prevention program for melioidosis was evaluated in diabetic adults in Ubon Ratchathani, Thailand. The program included ten behavioral support groups, each with 6-10 participants, and used twelve behavior change techniques. Participants found the intervention beneficial, interesting, and engaging. The proportion of participants reporting that they always wore boots while working in rice fields increased from 30% to 77%, and the proportion drinking only boiled or bottled water increased from 43% to 86%. The program is highly acceptable to participants and can support behavior change. Policy makers should consider implementing the program in areas where melioidosis is endemic. Making calendars with individual photographs and self-pledges as a reminder tool could be a powerful component in behavior change interventions, and further research is needed on this component.
 In this study, researchers investigated the presence of metastrongyloid lungworms in the invasive giant African snail, Lissachatina fulica, in Colombia. The snails were collected from six Colombian municipalities and examined for the presence of metastrongyloid larvae using microscopy. The results showed that snails from Puerto Leguizamo were infected with Aelurostrongylus abstrusus, Angiostrongylus vasorum, Troglostrongylus brevior, and Crenosoma vulpis larvae, with prevalences of 53.3%, 8.4%, 6.5%, and 5.6%, respectively. Snails from Andes and Tulúa were also found to be infected with Angiostrongylus vasorum larvae, with prevalences of 4.6% and 6.3%, respectively. Species identifications were confirmed by PCR and sequencing. This is the first report of the presence of Aelurostrongylus abstrusus, Troglostrongylus brevior, Crenosoma vulpis, and Angiostrongylus vasorum in L. fulica in various parts of Colombia. These findings highlight the importance of evaluating the role of gastropods as intermediate hosts in the life cycles of these parasites and the potential impact on the health of domestic and wild animals and humans in Colombia.
 Human alveolar echinococcosis (AE) is a severe zoonotic disease caused by the metacestode stage of Echinococcus multilocularis. While genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have been successful in identifying disease susceptibility loci for common and complex diseases, the question remains whether individual disease risk can be quantified based on genotype data to facilitate personalized prevention and treatment. Previous studies have failed to achieve satisfactory performance, primarily due to the use of a limited number of confirmed susceptibility loci. In this study, we propose that sophisticated machine-learning approaches with a large ensemble of markers may improve the performance of disease risk assessment. We applied a Support Vector Machine (SVM) algorithm on a GWAS dataset for type 1 diabetes (T1D) and optimized a risk assessment model with hundreds of markers. The model achieved an area under ROC curve (AUC) of approximately 0.84 in both independent datasets. In contrast, poor performance was achieved when limited to dozens of known susceptibility loci or using logistic regression. Our study suggests that improved disease risk assessment can be achieved by using algorithms that take into account interactions between a large ensemble of markers. We are optimistic that genotype-based disease risk assessment may be feasible for diseases where a notable proportion of the risk has already been captured by SNP arrays.
 Leishmaniasis is a neglected tropical disease endemic in 98 countries, with approximately 2 million cases and 59,000 deaths annually. In Brazil, which is one of the most severely affected countries, cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis (CL and VL, respectively) were analyzed using Bayesian geostatistical negative binomial models over a 10-year period (2001-2010). The models were fitted using integrated nested Laplace approximations (INLA) for fast approximate Bayesian inference. Bayesian variable selection was employed to determine the most important climatic, environmental, and socioeconomic predictors of CL and VL. For both types of leishmaniasis, precipitation and socioeconomic proxies were identified as important risk factors. The predicted number of cases in 2010 were 30,189 (SD: 7,676) for cutaneous leishmaniasis and 4,889 (SD: 288) for visceral leishmaniasis. The highest numbers of infected people were predicted in the states of Minas Gerais and Pará for visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis, respectively. The spatially explicit, high-resolution incidence maps identified priority areas for leishmaniasis control efforts to reduce disease incidence.
 Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC) is a foodborne pathogen that causes severe illness, including diarrhea, hemorrhagic colitis, and hemolytic-uremic syndrome. EHEC uses the type VI secretion system (T6SS) to secrete a novel effector protein called KatN, which is a Mn-containing catalase. KatN is secreted into the host cell cytosol after EHEC is phagocytized by macrophages, leading to decreased levels of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) and facilitating the intramacrophage survival of EHEC. The deletion mutant of T6SS was attenuated in virulence compared to the wild type strain, while the deletion mutant of katN had comparable virulence. These findings suggest that EHEC can sense oxidative stress in the phagosome and decrease the host cell ROS by secreting catalase KatN to facilitate its survival in the host cells.
 An ontology is a formal representation of knowledge within a specific domain, including central concepts, their properties, and relations. Ontologies have become essential for data mining and sharing across communities in the biomedical sciences. While there are methods for testing an ontology's internal consistency, there is no standard approach for assessing its fidelity to its knowledge domain. In this study, the authors introduce a family of metrics to evaluate the breadth and depth of an ontology's representation of its knowledge domain. They test these metrics using four medical ontologies and seven English thesauri, demonstrating that their approach captures the quality of ontological representation and guides efforts to narrow the gap between ontology and collective discourse within a domain. The results also reveal key features of medical ontologies, English thesauri, and discourse from different domains. Medical ontologies have a small intersection, as do English thesauri. Moreover, dialects characteristic of distinct domains vary strikingly, as many of the same words are used quite differently in medicine, news, and novels. By improving the fit between ontology and domain, the authors suggest that their methods will increase the relevance of ontologies for new areas of biomedical science and improve the accuracy and power of inferences computed across them.
 In this study, researchers investigated the role of a young duplicate gene, nsr, in male reproduction in Drosophila melanogaster. They found that nsr is required for male reproduction, specifically for sperm individualization, coiling, and structural integrity of the sperm axoneme. The absence of nsr-like expression pattern and the presence of the corresponding cis-regulatory elements of the parental gene kep1 in the pre-duplication species Drosophila yakuba suggest that kep1 might not be ancestrally required for male functions and that nsr possibly underwent neofunctionalization. These findings demonstrate that recently originated duplicate genes can acquire multiple biological roles and establish novel functional pathways by regulating essential genes.
 Protein-protein interactions (PPIs) play a crucial role in various biological processes, and understanding complex networks of PPIs is a major challenge in systems biology. With the recent advances in high-throughput techniques, large amounts of PPI data are becoming available, but the data are often noisy and incomplete. In this study, a novel technique is presented to assess the confidence levels of interactions in PPI networks obtained from experimental studies. The approach utilizes a geometric graph model, which achieves a specificity of 85% and sensitivity of 90%. The method is used to predict new interactions in the human PPI network and validate a statistically significant portion of the predicted interactions in the HPRD database and the newer release of BioGRID. The data and Matlab code implementing the methods are freely available online. The technique is the first to use a network model of PPI networks for purposes other than just generating synthetic data, and it demonstrates that a geometric graph model can be used for assessing the confidence levels of known interactions in PPI networks and predicting novel ones. The approach is compared with existing PPI network post-processing techniques in the final section. Proteins form interactions based on their biochemical properties, which can be considered as dimensions of some abstract metric space. PPI networks reside in some biochemical space with a finite number of dimensions. The random geometric graph model matches PPI networks in terms of various global and local network properties. An algorithm is designed to test directly whether PPI networks are geometric by embedding them into a low-dimensional Euclidean space. The algorithm successfully embeds various PPI networks into a low-dimensional space, supporting the hypothesis that PPI networks are geometric.
 Buruli ulcer is a chronic skin disease caused by Mycobacterium ulcerans, which produces the cytotoxic macrolide exotoxin mycolactone. The role of immune responses in containing M. ulcerans infections is not fully understood, but there is evidence for an early intra-macrophage growth phase of the pathogen. In an experimental Buruli ulcer mouse model, interferon-γ (IFN-γ) was found to be a critical regulator of early host immune defense against M. ulcerans. Interferon-γ knockout mice displayed faster progression of the infection, with faster tissue necrosis and edema formation and a significantly higher bacterial burden after five weeks of infection. This indicates that mice lacking interferon-γ have a reduced capacity to kill intracellular bacilli during the early intra-macrophage growth phase of M. ulcerans. These findings support the view that concepts for vaccine development against tuberculosis may also be valid for BU.
 In this study, researchers investigated the role of PHB, a plant protein, in regulating TA cell activities in the root meristem of Arabidopsis. PHB is controlled by SHR and SCR, and its concentration affects B-ARR activities in a dose-dependent manner. The results showed that a moderate increase in PHB led to a root meristem phenotype similar to that observed following the application of high levels of cytokinin. This effect was suggested to help maintain cytokinin homeostasis in the meristem. The findings suggest that PHB can dynamically regulate TA cell activities in a QC-independent manner, and that the SHR-PHB pathway enables a robust root growth system by coordinating the stem cell niche and TA domain.
 In this study, we introduce a new method to infer demographic parameters from the site frequency spectrum (SFS) of large genomic datasets using a flexible and robust simulation-based framework. Our approach allows for the study of evolutionary models of arbitrary complexity, which cannot be handled by other current likelihood-based methods. For simple scenarios, our method compares favorably in terms of accuracy and speed with the current reference method, while showing better convergence properties for complex models.We first apply our methodology to non-coding genomic SNP data from four human populations, comparing neutral evolutionary models of increasing complexity including unsampled populations. We then extend our framework to infer demographic parameters from SNP chips with known ascertainment, such as the recently released Affymetrix SNP chip for studying human origins. Our method can correctly infer parameters of more complex models including the divergence of several populations, bottlenecks, and migration, whereas previous ways of handling ascertained SNPs were either restricted to a single population or only allowed the inference of divergence time between a pair of populations.Our methodology appears well-suited to the study of complex scenarios from large genomic data sets.
 In the field of biology, understanding how complex tissue shapes arise through growth is a major challenge. Two primary theories suggest that orientations are specified through stresses in the tissue (axiality-based system) or through molecular signalling (polarity-based system). While the axiality-based system has been explored through computational modelling, a polarity-based system called the Growing Polarised Tissue (GPT) framework was recently developed.The GPT framework treats tissue as a continuous material, and polarity is established by signals that propagate through the tissue and are anchored in regions called tissue polarity organisers. Rates of growth parallel or perpendicular to the local polarity are then specified through a regulatory network. The resulting growth depends on how specified growth patterns interact within the constraints of mechanically connected tissue, leading to the emergence of features such as curvature.The GPT framework was illustrated by applying it to a growing Snapdragon flower, and it is proposed that combinatorial interactions between orientations and rates of growth, which are a key feature of polarity-based systems, have been exploited during evolution to generate a range of observed biological shapes. The GPT framework provides a valuable approach for understanding morphogenesis and may serve as a useful example for other complex systems.
 Ophthalmo-acromelic syndrome (OAS), also known as Waardenburg Anophthalmia syndrome, is a rare genetic disorder characterized by eye malformations, most commonly anophthalmia, and post-axial oligosyndactyly of the limbs. Homozygous mutations in the SMOC1 gene, which encodes a BMP antagonist, have been identified in eight unrelated families with OAS. Four of these mutations are nonsense, two are frame-shift, and two are missense. The missense mutations are both in the second Thyroglobulin Type-1 (Tg1) domain of the protein. The mouse orthologue, Smoc1, shows site- and stage-specific expression during eye, limb, craniofacial, and somite development. A targeted pre-conditional gene-trap mutation of Smoc1 in mice results in highly penetrant hindlimb post-axial oligosyndactyly and eye malformations, most commonly coloboma. The findings suggest that partial loss of Smoc-1 results in a convincing phenocopy of the human disease.
 Chagas' disease, caused by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi, can lead to dilated cardiomyopathy. The disease progression is influenced by the balance between pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines, with Th1 and Th2 cells and regulatory T cells (Tregs) playing crucial roles. In this study, the authors investigated the role of IL-17 and Tregs during human Chagas' disease. They observed CD4+IL-17+ T cells in culture of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from Chagas' disease patients and evaluated Th1, Th2, Th17 cytokine profile production in PBMC cells from patients with different cardiomyopathy severities. They found that cultures of PBMC from patients with moderate and severe cardiomyopathy produced high levels of TNF-α, IFN-γ, and low levels of IL-10, compared to mild cardiomyopathy or cardiomyopathy-free patients. Flow cytometry analysis showed higher CD4+IL-17+ cells in PBMC cultured from patients without or with mild cardiomyopathy, compared to patients with moderate or severe cardiomyopathy. All groups of Chagas' disease patients presented the same frequency of CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells, but CD4+CD25+ T cells from patients with mild cardiomyopathy or cardiomyopathy-free showed higher suppressive activity than those with moderate and severe cardiomyopathy. IFN-γ levels during chronic Chagas' disease were inversely correlated to the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), while regulatory T cell activity was directly correlated with LVEF. These results suggest that reduced production of the cytokines IL-10 and IL-17, in association with high levels of IFN-γ and TNF-α, is correlated with the severity of Chagas' disease cardiomyopathy, and the immunological imbalance observed may be causally related with deficient suppressor activity of regulatory T cells that controls myocardial inflammation.
 Dengue virus causes a range of diseases from self-limiting fever to severe conditions such as hemorrhagic fever and dengue shock syndrome. The occurrence of severe dengue is thought to be due to antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE), where pre-existing non-neutralizing antibodies enhance the virus's ability to infect cells. This phenomenon has been observed in infants born to dengue-immune mothers, who are at greater risk of developing severe dengue upon primary infection.A recent study investigated the role of maternally acquired dengue-specific antibodies in disease enhancement using a mouse model. The study found that the majority of maternal dengue-specific antibodies were acquired during breastfeeding and conferred an extended enhancement window. In contrast, in the context of homologous infection, breastfeeding conferred protection. Furthermore, measurement of dengue-specific antibody titers over time in mice born to dengue-immune mothers revealed a biphasic pattern of antibody decay, as reported in humans.These findings provide evidence of the potential contribution of breast milk-acquired dengue-specific IgG antibodies in enhancement and protection against dengue. If such contribution is established in humans, it may have important implications for the development of guidelines for dengue-immune breastfeeding mothers.
 In the complex world of bacterial genomes, alternative sigma factors play a crucial role in promoting the transcription of specific gene sets in response to changing environmental conditions. One of the most studied alternative sigma factors is RpoS, which is essential for the general stress response in E. coli and exists in diverse Proteobacteria, including pathogenic species. RpoS regulates genes involved in various adaptive processes, such as biofilm formation in Pseudomonas aeruginosa and infectivity of Salmonella enterica in mice.Borrelia burgdorferi, the Lyme disease spirochete, uses just three sigma factors, σ70, RpoN, and RpoS, to modulate its transcriptome during its enzootic cycle. Transcription of rpoSBb is directly activated by RpoN with the aid of two enhancer proteins, Rrp2 and BosR. However, the contribution of the RpoS regulon to the tick-phase of the enzootic cycle has not been examined.In this study, researchers demonstrate that RpoS-dependent gene expression is prerequisite for the transmission of spirochetes by feeding nymphs. RpoS-deficient organisms are confined to the midgut lumen, where they transform into an unusual morphotype called round bodies during the later stages of the blood meal. Round body formation is rapidly reversible, and in vitro, it appears to be attributable to reduced levels of Coenzyme A disulfide reductase, which provides NAD+ for glycolysis.These findings reveal a previously unsuspected role for RpoSBb in the physiological adaptations required for tick-to-mammal transmission and the existence of a proposed default survival mode (round body formation) triggered when spirochetes are unable to produce sufficient energy for dissemination within the nymph.
 Buruli ulcer (BU) is a severe skin disease caused by Mycobacterium ulcerans. The disease can progress from a painless papule to an ulcerative form, and genetic factors are believed to play a role in susceptibility and progression. In this study, the authors investigated the association between genetic variants in three autophagy-related genes, NOD2, PARK2, and ATG16L1, and BU risk, severe phenotypes, and progression to an ulcerative form.The authors genotyped these genes in 208 BU patients, 70.2% of whom had an ulcerative form and 28% in the severe WHO category 3 phenotype, and 300 healthy endemic controls. They found that the rs1333955 SNP in PARK2 was significantly associated with increased susceptibility to BU (odds ratio [OR] = 1.43; P = 0.05). Additionally, both the rs9302752 and rs2066842 SNPs in NOD2 were significantly associated with an increased predisposition to develop category 3 (OR = 2.23; P = 0.02 and OR = 12.7; P = 0.03, respectively). The rs2241880 SNP in ATG16L1 was found to significantly protect patients from presenting the ulcer phenotype (OR = 0.35; P = 0.02).These findings suggest that specific genetic variants in autophagy-related genes influence susceptibility to the development of BU and its progression to severe phenotypes. Understanding the role of these genes in the immune response to M. ulcerans infection could lead to the development of new therapeutic strategies for the prevention and treatment of BU.
 Microbial metabolism of plant polysaccharides is an essential part of environmental carbon cycling, human nutrition, and industrial processes based on cellulosic bioconversion. In this study, researchers present a method to analyze how microbes catabolize plant polysaccharides using carbohydrate-active enzyme (CAZyme) assays, RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), and anaerobic growth screening. They apply this method to study Clostridium phytofermentans, a soil bacterium that ferments various plant biomass components, including glucans, mannans, xylans, galactans, pectins, and arabinans. The results reveal that these polysaccharides are fermented with varying efficiencies, and the bacterium responds by up-regulating specific groups of CAZymes, transporters, and enzymes to metabolize the constituent sugars. The researchers also identify synergies between enzymes acting on the same substrate with different catalytic mechanisms. This study advances our understanding of how microbes degrade and metabolize plant biomass.Introduction:Plants produce 200 billion tons of lignocellulosic biomass annually, which is metabolized by specialized microbes in diverse environments. Recycling of plant biomass by soil and marine microbes is a crucial part of the global carbon cycle, and industrial microbes could convert cellulosic biomass into energy and commodities. Elucidating how microbes depolymerize and metabolize plant biomass is essential to understand carbon flow in the environment, promote healthy human nutrition, and prevent disease, and to develop industrial processes based on cellulosic bioconversion. Most of plant biomass is in the cell wall, a macromolecular network of phenolic lignin and three types of polysaccharides: cellulose, hemicelluloses, and pectins. The cell wall's load-bearing structure consists of cellulose fibrils tethered by various types of hemicellulose. Hemicellulose is enriched in xylan, xyloglucan, arabinoxylan, galacto- and glucomannans, and mannans. Pectins are cross-linked galacturonic acid-based polysaccharides that act in cellular adhesion and primary wall extension. Clostridium phytofermentans, a soil bacterium with 171 CAZyme-encoding genes, is of particular interest due to its presence in the human gut microbiome and its potential to transform cellulosic biomass into fuels and commodities. This study demonstrates a strategy for systematic analysis of the enzymatic machinery used by microbes to degrade and metabolize plant polysaccharides.Keywords: biotechnology, applied microbiology, bacterial genomics, microbial metabolism, microbial physiology, genetics, biology and life sciences, microbiology, genomics, microbial genomics.Lay Summary:Microbes play a crucial role in recycling plant biomass, which is essential for the global carbon cycle, human nutrition, and industrial processes based on cellulosic bioconversion. In this study, researchers present a method to analyze how microbes catabolize plant polysaccharides using CAZyme assays, RNA sequencing, and anaerobic growth screening. They apply this method to study Clostridium phytofermentans, a soil bacterium that ferments various plant biomass components, including glucans, mannans, xylans, galactans, pectins, and arabinans. The results reveal that these polysaccharides are fermented with varying efficiencies, and the bacterium responds by up-regulating specific groups of CAZymes, transporters, and enzymes to metabolize the constituent sugars. The researchers also identify synergies between enzymes acting on the same substrate with different catalytic mechanisms. This study advances our understanding of how microbes degrade and metabolize plant biomass.
 In this study, researchers investigated the factors contributing to human alveolar echinococcosis (AE), a severe zoonotic disease caused by the metacestode stage of Echinococcus multilocularis. They conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of 17 publications, including six case-control and 11 cross-sectional studies, to identify potential risk factors (PRFs) associated with human AE.The findings revealed that several PRFs for human AE showed higher odds of outcome in both case-control and cross-sectional studies. These included dog ownership, cat ownership, having a kitchen garden, occupation as a farmer, haymaking in meadows not adjacent to water, going to forests for vocational reasons, chewing grass, gender as female, age over 20 years, ethnic group as Tibetan, low income, source of drinking water other than well or tap, and occupation as herding.Interestingly, food- and water-borne PRFs did not significantly increase the risk of infection. The researchers suggest that these findings may help researchers and decision-makers improve surveillance and preventive measures to decrease human infection with E. multilocularis. However, they also emphasize the need for more primary studies to confirm potential risk factors and their role in the epidemiology of human AE.
 In multicellular organisms, tight regulation of gene expression is crucial for appropriate tissue and organismal growth throughout development. Reversible phosphorylation of the RNA Polymerase II (RNAPII) C-terminal domain (CTD) plays a key role in gene expression regulation, but how phosphorylation is actively modified in a developmental context remains poorly understood.One enzyme reported to dephosphorylate the RNAPII CTD is protein phosphatase 1 (PP1). However, the contribution of PP1 to transcriptional regulation during animal development and the mechanisms by which its activity is targeted to RNAPII have not been fully elucidated.In this study, researchers investigated the role of PP1 in transcriptional regulation during Drosophila development by examining the function of the Drosophila orthologue of the PP1 Nuclear Targeting Subunit (dPNUTS). They found that dPNUTS is essential for organismal development and is cell autonomously required for growth of developing tissues. The function of dPNUTS in tissue development depends on its binding to PP1, which is targeted by dPNUTS to RNAPII at many active sites of transcription on chromosomes.Loss of dPNUTS function or specific disruption of its ability to bind PP1 results in hyperphosphorylation of the RNAPII CTD in whole animal extracts and on chromosomes. Consistent with dPNUTS being a global transcriptional regulator, loss of dPNUTS function affects the expression of the majority of genes in developing 1st instar larvae, including those that promote proliferative growth.These findings shed light on the in vivo role of the PNUTS-PP1 holoenzyme and its contribution to the control of gene expression during early Drosophila development.
 The hippocampus, a crucial region in the brain for memory storage and retrieval, has long been studied using the framework of autoassociative memory networks. However, this framework makes simplifying assumptions about the synaptic plasticity rules and network dynamics during recall, which can lead to unrealistic results. In particular, the assumption of additive learning rules, where the cumulative effect of storing multiple memory traces is obtained as the linear sum of their contributions, is biologically untenable as it can result in arbitrarily large or even negative synaptic weights, violating Dale's principle.Recent treatments based on the notion of metaplasticity provide a more realistic alternative for understanding the bounded dynamical range of synapses. Metaplasticity is a mechanism that modulates synaptic plasticity and comes in various forms, including the cascade model, which enables information to be stored in bounded synapses almost as efficiently as additive learning rules.Despite the advantages of metaplastic synapses for memory storage, their implications for efficient memory recall are unknown. Here, we develop a theoretical framework for memory storage and recall with bounded synapses, treating recall as a probabilistic inference problem and deriving neural dynamics that implement approximate inference algorithms to solve it efficiently. We demonstrate that memories can be efficiently read out with biologically plausible network dynamics that are fully constrained by the synaptic plasticity rule and the statistics of the stored patterns and recall cue. Our theory organizes a wide range of existing data about the regulation of excitability, feedback inhibition, and network oscillations in area CA3 into a coherent framework and makes novel and directly testable predictions that can guide future experiments.
 Toxoplasma gondii is an intracellular parasite that replicates in mammalian cells within a parasitophorous vacuole that does not fuse with any host organelles. To acquire nutrients, the parasite attracts host organelles to the vacuole, including lipid droplets (LD). In this study, researchers examined the exploitation of host LD by Toxoplasma and found that the parasite's replication is reduced in host cells that are depleted of LD or impaired in TAG lipolysis or fatty acid catabolism. The number of host LD and the expression of host LD-associated genes progressively increase until the onset of parasite replication, and the PV are surrounded by host LD. Toxoplasma is capable of accessing lipids stored in host LD and incorporates these lipids into its own membranes and LD. The parasite intercepts and internalizes within the PV host LD, some of which remain associated with Rab7, and forms an intravacuolar network of membranes (IVN). Mutant parasites impaired in IVN formation display diminished capacity of lipid uptake from host LD. Additionally, parasites lacking an IVN-localized phospholipase A2 are less proficient in salvaging lipids from host LD in the PV, suggesting a major contribution of the IVN for host LD processing in the PV and lipid content release. The study highlights the reliance of Toxoplasma on host LD for its intracellular development and the parasite's capability in scavenging neutral lipids from host LD.
 In the field of developmental biology, understanding the roles of neutrophils and macrophages in fighting bacterial infections is a critical issue in human pathologies. While phagocytic killing has been extensively studied, little is known about how bacteria are eliminated extracellularly in live vertebrates. A recent study in the zebrafish embryo has provided new insights into this question.When Escherichia coli bacteria are injected within the notochord of the zebrafish embryo, both neutrophils and macrophages are recruited, but they do not infiltrate the infected tissue due to its tough collagen sheath. Despite this, the bacteria are killed during the first 24 hours. The study reveals that neutrophils, but not macrophages, are involved in the control of the infection.Using genetic and chemical approaches, the researchers show that even in the absence of phagocytosis, the bactericidal action relies on NADPH oxidase-dependent production of superoxide in neutrophils. This discovery reveals a host effector mechanism mediated by neutrophils that eliminates bacteria that cannot be reached by phagocytes and that is independent of macrophages, NO synthase, or myeloperoxidase.Overall, this study provides important new information about the mechanisms of bacterial clearance in the context of inaccessible infections, and highlights the value of the zebrafish embryo as a model system for studying host-pathogen interactions in vivo.
 In this study, we present a new method to infer demographic parameters from the site frequency spectrum (SFS) of large genomic datasets using a flexible and robust simulation-based framework. Our approach allows for the study of evolutionary models of arbitrary complexity, which cannot be handled by other current likelihood-based methods. For simple scenarios, our method compares favorably in terms of accuracy and speed with the current reference in the field, while showing better convergence properties for complex models.We first applied our methodology to non-coding genomic SNP data from four human populations, comparing neutral evolutionary models of increasing complexity including unsampled populations. We then extended the framework to infer demographic parameters from SNP chips with known ascertainment, such as the recently released Affymetrix SNP chip for studying human origins. Our method can correctly infer parameters of more complex models including the divergence of several populations, bottlenecks, and migration.Using two distinct ascertained human SNP panels studied under two evolutionary models, we found that the two panels led to globally very similar estimates and confidence intervals, suggesting an ancient divergence (>110 Ky) between Yoruba and San populations. Our methodology appears well suited to the study of complex scenarios from large genomic data sets.
 The Encyclopedia of DNA Elements (ENCODE) Project aims to identify and describe all functional elements in the human genome, including genes, transcripts, and transcriptional regulatory regions, as well as DNA binding proteins that interact with regulatory regions. The ENCODE Consortium uses a variety of experimental methods and computational analyses to study the genome, focusing on seven Data Production Centers that generate multiple complementary types of genome-wide data. These data include identification and quantification of RNA species, mapping of protein-coding regions, delineation of chromatin and DNA accessibility and structure, mapping of histone modifications and transcription factor binding sites, and measurement of DNA methylation patterns. The ENCODE Project has developed standards for each experiment type to ensure high-quality, reproducible data and novel algorithms to facilitate analysis. All data and derived results are made available through a freely accessible database. The ENCODE Project provides insights into the mechanisms behind the interpretation of the human genome and has applications in understanding human biology and improving health.
 In this study, we investigated the role of complement receptor 1 (CR1) in the differential susceptibility to leprosy, an infectious disease that affects mainly the skin and peripheral nervous system. CR1 binds complement fragments C3b/C4b deposited on mycobacteria, mediating its entrance in macrophages. We haplotyped nine CR1 polymorphisms in 213 leprosy patients and 297 controls, measured mRNA levels by qPCR, and determined soluble CR1 levels by ELISA in up to 80 samples. Individuals carrying the most common recombinant haplotype with rs3849266*T in intron 21 and rs3737002*T in exon 26, encoding p.1408Met of the York Yka+ antigen, presented a higher susceptibility to leprosy (OR = 2.43, p = 0.017). Paucibacillary patients with these variants had lower sCR1 levels, reducing the anti-inflammatory response (p = 0.040 and p = 0.046, respectively). The most ancient haplotype increased susceptibility to the multibacillary clinical form (OR = 3.04, p = 0.01) and presented the intronic rs12034383*G allele, which was associated with higher gene expression (p = 0.043). Furthermore, there was an inverse correlation between sCR1 and mannose-binding lectin (MBL) levels (R = -0.52, p = 0.007). Our results suggest that CR1 polymorphisms regulate mRNA and sCR1 levels, with haplotype-specific effects increasing susceptibility to leprosy by enhancing parasite phagocytosis and inflammation.
 In this study, we investigate the role of the UBA domain-containing protein Lingerer (Lig) in growth control during development in Drosophila melanogaster. Lig interacts with and regulates the RNA-binding proteins Fragile X mental retardation protein 1 (FMR1), Rasputin (Rin), and Caprin (Capr) to restrict proliferation in growing tissues. In lig mutants and in FMR1, Capr, and rin in combination as double mutants, organ size is increased due to excess proliferation. Our findings demonstrate the involvement of mRNA-binding proteins in epithelial growth control and may also contribute to a better molecular understanding of the Fragile X mental retardation syndrome.Introduction:Animal growth is orchestrated by controlled expression of growth-regulatory factors. This regulation is achieved at different molecular levels like transcription, translation initiation, and translational regulation. While transcriptional control and translation initiation of growth components have been well studied, the role of translational control in this process is less clear. In Drosophila melanogaster, FMR1, Rin, and Capr, which are known translational regulators, have been shown to regulate growth and growth factors at the translational level. However, it is not known whether FMR1, Capr, and Rasputin (Rin), the fly ortholog of G3BP, regulate cellular growth in epithelial tissues. In this study, we identify the UBA domain-containing protein Lingerer (Lig) as a novel interaction partner of FMR1, Rin, and Capr in flies and present genetic, biochemical, and cell biological evidence that a complex of Lig with RNA-binding proteins restricts proliferation in growing tissues. Furthermore, we demonstrate that JAK/STAT signaling is activated in lig mutant cells.Methods:To identify Lig as a growth suppressor, we performed a genetic screen using the FLP-FRT system in Drosophila melanogaster. We used the GAL4-UAS system to overexpress Lig in specific tissues and monitored organ size as a readout of cell proliferation. We also performed co-immunoprecipitation experiments to confirm the interaction between Lig and the RNA-binding proteins FMR1, Rin, and Capr.Results:Our genetic screen identified Lig as a novel growth suppressor that interacts with FMR1, Rin, and Capr. In lig mutants and in FMR1, Capr, and rin in combination as double mutants, organ size is increased due to excess proliferation. We confirmed the interaction between Lig and the RNA-binding proteins using co-immunoprecipitation experiments. We also found that JAK/STAT signaling is activated in lig mutant cells.Discussion:Our findings demonstrate the involvement of mRNA-binding proteins in epithelial growth control and may also contribute to a better molecular understanding of the Fragile X mental retardation syndrome. The identification of Lig as a growth suppressor that interacts with FMR1, Rin, and Capr provides new insights into the mechanisms of growth control during development in Drosophila melanogaster. The activation of JAK/STAT signaling in lig mutant cells suggests that Lig may play a role in regulating growth through multiple pathways. Further studies are needed to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying the interaction between Lig and the RNA-binding proteins and the role of JAK/STAT signaling in growth control.Conclusion:In conclusion, we have identified Lingerer (Lig) as a novel growth suppressor that interacts with the RNA-binding proteins Fragile X mental retardation protein 1 (FMR1), Rasputin (Rin), and Caprin (Capr) to restrict proliferation in growing tissues in Drosophila melanogaster. Our findings demonstrate the involvement of mRNA-binding proteins in epithelial growth control and may also contribute to a better molecular understanding of the Fragile X mental retardation syndrome. Further studies are needed to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying the interaction between Lig and the RNA-binding proteins and the role of JAK/STAT signaling in growth control.Keywords:growth suppressor, RNA-binding proteins, Fragile X mental retardation protein 1 (FMR1), Rasputin (Rin), Caprin (
 Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a complex disorder that involves multiple organs and genetic factors. The Stockholm Atherosclerosis Gene Expression (STAGE) study aimed to identify functionally associated genes important for CAD using whole-genome expression profiles from multiple organs. A two-way clustering approach was used, where in the first step, all mRNA signals within one organ were processed to define tissue clusters based on associations between mRNA signals across all patients. In the second step, patients were clustered according to the mRNA signals within each tissue cluster to identify signals related to clinical phenotypes. The clinical endpoint was the extent of coronary atherosclerotic lesions as judged from the degree of coronary stenosis, measured by quantitative coronary angiography (QCA). The study identified a module of genes, referred to as the atherosclerosis module (A-module), that was important for atherosclerosis development and was genetically enriched with CAD risk. The transcription co-factor LIM domain binding 2 (LDB2) was identified as a potential high-hierarchy regulator of the A-module, and subnetwork analysis, cellular and lesion expression of LDB2, and the expression of 13 TEML genes in Ldb2–deficient arterial wall supported this notion. The A-module merits further attention in CAD research.
 Leptospirosis is a bacterial disease caused by pathogenic members of the genus Leptospira. The infection can lead to a range of illnesses, from mild and non-specific to severe, with symptoms including jaundice, kidney and liver dysfunction, and widespread endothelial damage. The interaction of the pathogen with host tissue components is necessary for infection and pathogenesis, and recent research has shown that pathogenic Leptospira interrogans binds more efficiently to host cells than to extracellular matrix components.Using in vitro phage display, researchers identified putative lipoproteins LIC10508 and LIC13411, and the conserved hypothetical proteins LIC12341 and LIC11574, as candidate L. interrogans sv. Copenhageni st. Fiocruz L1–130 adhesins. Recombinant LIC11574 exhibited dose-dependent binding to both endothelial and epithelial cells, and it, along with LIC13411, binds to VE-cadherin, an endothelial cell receptor for L. interrogans. Extraction of bacteria with the non-ionic detergent Triton X-114 resulted in partitioning of the candidate adhesins to the detergent fraction, indicating that these proteins are outer membrane localized. All candidate adhesins were recognized by sera obtained from leptospirosis patients but not by sera from healthy individuals.These findings have identified bacterial adhesins that are potentially involved in L. interrogans infection of the mammalian host, and through cadherin binding, may contribute to dissemination and vascular damage. The findings may be of value in leptospirosis control and prevention, with the bacterial adhesins potentially serving as targets for development of diagnostics, therapeutics, and vaccines.
 Identification of identical-by-descent (IBD) genomic regions has proven useful in human genetic studies, leading to the discovery of familial relatedness and fine-mapping of disease critical regions. However, IBD analyses have been underutilized in other organisms, including human pathogens, due to the lack of statistical methodologies for non-diploid genomes and the added complexity of multiclonal infections.To address this, researchers have developed a new methodology called isoRelate for analysis of haploid recombining microorganisms in the presence of multiclonal infections. Using the inferred IBD status at genomic locations, they have also developed a novel statistic for identifying loci under positive selection and proposed relatedness networks as a means of exploring shared haplotypes within populations.The researchers evaluated the performance of their methodologies for detecting IBD and selection, comparing them with existing tools, and performed an exploratory analysis of whole genome sequencing data from a global Plasmodium falciparum dataset of over 2,500 genomes. Their analysis identified Southeast Asia as having many highly related isolates, possibly due to both reduced transmission from intensified control efforts and population bottlenecks following the emergence of antimalarial drug resistance. Many signals of selection were also identified, most of which overlapped genes that are known to be associated with drug resistance, as well as two novel signals observed in multiple countries that have yet to be explored in detail.Additionally, the researchers investigated relatedness networks over the selected loci and determined that one of these sweeps has spread between continents while the other has arisen independently in different countries. IBD analysis of microorganisms using isoRelate can be used for exploring population structure, positive selection, and haplotype distributions, and will be a valuable tool for monitoring disease control and elimination efforts of many diseases.
 Human papillomaviruses (HPVs) are DNA viruses that cause major human cancers, making the development of preventative measures such as vaccines and microbicides essential. HPVs establish their infections in the basal layer of stratified epithelia, but why this is necessary has not been fully understood. In this study, researchers used chemical biology approaches to reveal that cell cycle progression through mitosis is crucial for HPV infection. They found that the recipient cell must enter M phase (mitosis) for HPV infection to occur, while late M phase inhibitors had no effect. This discovery provides insight into why HPVs initially establish infections in the basal compartment of stratified epithelia and has potential implications for HPV control.
 Orofacial clefts, including cleft lip and palate, are among the most common birth defects, affecting one in every 700 newborns. The causes of this heterogeneous condition are incompletely understood, with both genetic and environmental components. In this study, we identified mutations in the HYAL2 gene as a cause of syndromic orofacial clefting. HYAL2 encodes hyaluronidase 2, which degrades extracellular hyaluronan, a critical component of the developing heart and palatal shelf matrix. Transfection assays showed that the gene mutations destabilize the molecule, resulting in dramatically reduced HYAL2 protein levels. Consistent with the clinical presentation in affected individuals, investigations of Hyal2-/- mice revealed craniofacial abnormalities, including submucosal cleft palate. Additionally, cor triatriatum sinister and hearing loss, identified in a proportion of Hyal2-/- mice, were also found as incompletely penetrant features in affected humans. Our findings identify a new genetic cause of orofacial clefting in humans and mice and define the first molecular cause of human cor triatriatum sinister, illustrating the fundamental importance of HYAL2 and hyaluronan turnover for normal human and mouse development.
 Cutaneous leishmaniasis is a disease caused by various Leishmania species, leading to disfiguring skin lesions with different severity and response to therapies. Rapid and accurate identification of the infecting species is crucial for optimal treatment decision. Current methods for Leishmania typing are complex and time-consuming, leading to presumptive diagnosis based on epidemiological and clinical grounds. We investigated the potential of matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry for rapid and simple Leishmania species identification in cultured isolates. Our results showed that MALDI-TOF MS can discriminate Leishmania species to the complex level, consistent with reference methods. This method may facilitate easier and more robust treatment decisions in patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis.
 Intracellular bacteria, such as Legionella pneumophila, evade destruction in macrophages by hiding in a specialized organelle called the Legionella-containing vacuole (LCV), where they replicate. The LCV matures by incorporating ER vesicles, which are diverted by effectors that the bacteria inject to control host cell membrane transport processes. One of these effectors, RalF, recruits the trafficking small GTPase Arf1 to the LCV, and its activation is crucial for fusion of ER-derived membranes with the LCV. RalF contains a Sec7 homology region related to host ArfGEFs, followed by a capping domain that inhibits GEF activity. The mechanism by which RalF is activated to function as a LCV-specific ArfGEF is unknown.To investigate how auto-inhibition is relieved for LpRalF to function in vivo, researchers combined the reconstitution of Arf activation on artificial membranes with cellular expression and Lp infection assays. They found that membranes activate LpRalF by about 1000-fold, and identified the membrane-binding region as the region that inhibits the Sec7 active site. This region is enriched in aromatic and positively charged residues, which establish a membrane sensor to control the GEF activity in accordance with specific lipid environments. A similar mechanism of activation is found in RalF from Rickettsia prowazekii, with a different aromatic/charged residues ratio that results in divergent membrane preferences. The membrane sensor is the primary determinant of the localization of LpRalF on the LCV, and drives the timing of Arf activation during infection. Finally, they identified a conserved motif in the capping domain, remote from the membrane sensor, which is critical for RalF activity. These data demonstrate that RalF proteins are regulated by a membrane sensor that functions as a binary switch to derepress ArfGEF activity when RalF encounters a favorable lipid environment, thus establishing a regulatory paradigm to ensure that Arf GTPases are efficiently activated at specific membrane locations.
 Malaria in pregnancy (MiP) is a significant health issue in low transmission areas where Plasmodium vivax predominates, but the costs associated with it are currently unknown. This study aimed to estimate the health system and patient costs of MiP in the Brazilian Amazon, where 96% of episodes were due to P. vivax and 4% to Plasmodium falciparum. The median costs from the patient perspective were estimated at US $45.91 for an outpatient consultation and US $216.29 for an admission. When multiple P. vivax infections during the same pregnancy were considered, patient costs increased up to US $335.85. Provider direct and overhead cost data were obtained from several sources, with the provider cost associated with an outpatient case being US $103.51 for a P. vivax malaria episode and US $83.59 for a P. falciparum episode. The cost of an inpatient day and average admission of 3 days was US $118.51 and US $355.53, respectively. Total provider costs for the diagnosis and treatment of all malaria cases reported in pregnant women in Manaus in 2010 were US $17,038.50, of which 92.4% (US$ 15,741.14) were due to P. vivax infection. Despite being an area of low risk malaria transmission, MiP is responsible for a significant economic burden in Manaus, especially when multiple infections are considered, and costs associated with P. vivax are higher than costs associated with P. falciparum. The information generated from this study may help health policy decisions for the current control and future elimination of malaria in the area.
 In the field of immunology, understanding the roles of neutrophils and macrophages in fighting bacterial infections is a critical issue in human pathologies. While phagocytic killing has been extensively studied, little is known about how bacteria are eliminated extracellularly in live vertebrates. A recent study in the zebrafish embryo has provided new insights into this question.When non-pathogenic Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria are injected in the notochord, the swollen rod that provides axial stiffness to the developing embryo, they slide between notochord cells and the thick cylindrical collagen sheath that encases the cord. Although unable to thread their way through this envelope, neutrophils and macrophages are massively recruited all along the infected notochord where they stay in a highly activated state for days. Interestingly, these inaccessible bacteria are cleared within the first 24 hours.To investigate the mechanisms of E. coli clearance in this notochord infection model, where professional phagocytes cannot directly encounter the injected bacteria, the study first investigated whether macrophages or neutrophils are involved in this clearance. It was found that neutrophils, but not macrophages, are instrumental for bacterial clearance and larva survival.Furthermore, the study showed that neutrophil bactericidal action relies on the NADPH oxidase-dependent production of superoxide and is independent of NO synthase or myeloperoxidase. This discovery reveals a host effector mechanism mediated by neutrophils that eliminates bacteria that cannot be reached by phagocytes and that is independent of macrophages, NO synthase, or myeloperoxidase.Overall, this study provides new insights into the mechanisms of bacterial clearance in the context of inaccessible infections, highlighting the importance of neutrophils and their bactericidal mechanisms.
 In this study, the authors develop a neuromechanistic model of auditory streaming, focusing on accurately reproducing the dynamics of perceptual alternations after the build-up phase. The model is motivated by physiological studies of auditory streaming and general models of perceptual bistability. It features a tonotopic organization with three units, each receiving input from different regions of the primary auditory cortex (A1). The perceptual interpretations are classified based on the firing patterns of the neurons. The model uses a dynamical systems framework with firing rate-based neuronal competition mediated by mutual inhibition, adaptation, and noise. The inclusion of recurrent NMDA-like excitation allows for some neuronal memory that links each tone and each triplet to the next. The authors compare their findings with the van Noorden organization and the log-normal distribution of dominance durations characteristic of perceptual bistability. They also test the model's predictions, constrain its parameters, and evaluate its underlying assumptions through psychoacoustic experiments. The results are organized to reflect the process of developing the model concurrently with the design and execution of the experiments.
 Recent studies have highlighted the genetic diversity of Toxoplasma gondii strains in French Guiana, with distinct strain types found in anthropized and wild environments. Anthropized strains are genetically similar to clonal type III strains from North America but are natural hybrids. In contrast, jungle strains are genetically very diverse. The monomorphic version of chromosome 1a (Chr1a) is almost universally found in anthropized strains, while wild strains are extremely divergent. The presence of the monomorphic Chr1a strongly correlates with greater transmission in domestic cats, although other factors also contribute. Anthropized strains also vary in their virulence in laboratory mice, and this pattern cannot be explained by the simple combination of previously identified virulence factors. Our studies provide additional evidence that the presence of Chr1a is associated with successful expansion of widely different lineages within diverse geographic areas and may confer an advantage for transmission in anthropized environments, potentially contributing to the spread of pathogenicity determinants.
 In the Lao People's Democratic Republic (Laos), malaria has been gradually decreasing but elimination by 2030 presents challenges. Microscopy and rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) are used for diagnosis, but sub-microscopic Plasmodium infections or asymptomatic Plasmodium carriers exist in endemic areas. To understand the precise malaria situation, highly sensitive detection methods are needed.A cross-sectional malaria field survey was conducted in three highly endemic districts in Attapeu province in 2015. Seven hundred nineteen volunteers participated, and microscopy, RDTs, and real-time nested PCR were used to detect Plasmodium infections. Among the 47 participants with parasitemia, only one had a fever, and 31 were adult males. Males and soldiers were at high risk for malaria infection, while a history of ≥3 malaria episodes was a risk factor for asymptomatic Plasmodium infection.PCR detected 47 Plasmodium infections, including 41 P. vivax infections, which accounted for 87.2% of the total. The sensitivity and specificity of microscopy for detecting P. falciparum and P. vivax infections were 33.3% and 100.0%, and 7.0% and 100.0%, respectively.To achieve malaria elimination in Laos, highly sensitive diagnostic tests, including PCR-based diagnostic methods, should be used. Plans targeting high-risk populations and eliminating P. vivax should be designed and implemented.
 In mammals, dosage compensation is achieved by doubling the expression of X-linked genes in both sexes while inactivating one X chromosome in females. The mechanisms controlling X expression are not well understood, but it is thought that they may involve DNA sequence-based and/or epigenetic mechanisms. To investigate how X expression is affected by ploidy, researchers compared X-linked and autosomal gene expression in human triploid cells. They found that the average X:autosome expression ratio was about 1 in normal diploid cells, but lower (0.81-0.84) in triploid cells with one active X chromosome and higher (1.32-1.4) in triploid cells with two active X chromosomes. This suggests that overall X-linked gene expression in triploid cells does not strictly respond to an autosomal factor and is not adjusted to achieve a perfect balance. The unbalanced X:autosome expression ratios observed in triploid cells could contribute to the abnormal phenotypes associated with triploidy. However, absolute autosomal expression levels per gene copy were similar in triploid and diploid cells, indicating no apparent global effect on autosomal expression. In triploid cells with two active X chromosomes, the data supports a basic doubling of X-linked gene expression. However, in triploid cells with a single active X chromosome, X-linked gene expression is adjusted upward presumably by an epigenetic mechanism that senses the ratio between the number of active X chromosomes and autosomal sets. Such a mechanism may act on a subset of genes whose expression dosage in relation to autosomal expression is critical. The researchers found that there was a range of individual X-linked gene expression in relation to ploidy and that a small subset (∼7%) of genes had expression levels apparently proportional to the number of autosomal sets.
 Dengue fever is a mosquito-borne disease caused by the dengue virus, which is primarily transmitted by the Aedes aegypti mosquito. Dengue control programs commonly employ reactive insecticide spraying around houses of reported cases, assuming that most transmission occurs within the home. However, it is unclear if this holds true in dense and mobile urban populations.To investigate this, researchers conducted a prospective study in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, enrolling 71 index cases and their household clusters. They found no excess risk of dengue infection within dengue case clusters during the two-week follow-up, compared to control clusters. However, the prevalence of recent dengue infection at baseline was two-fold higher in case clusters than controls. Prevalence of dengue infection in Aedes aegypti was similar in case and control houses, and low overall.These findings suggest that household clustering of dengue risk exists, but it is at a short temporal scale rather than sustained chains of localized transmission. Reactive perifocal insecticide spraying may have limited impact in this setting.
 In this study, researchers investigated the molecular mechanisms of alpha herpesvirus egress, specifically pseudorabies virus (PRV), in non-polarized epithelial cells using live-cell fluorescence microscopy. They developed a method using total internal reflection fluorescence (TIRF) microscopy to selectively image fluorescent virus particles near the plasma membrane and a pH-sensitive probe to visualize the precise moment and location of particle exocytosis. The results showed that individual virus particles travel to the plasma membrane inside small, acidified secretory vesicles. Rab GTPases, including Rab6a, Rab8a, and Rab11a, were present on the virus secretory vesicle and played key roles in the plasma membrane-directed secretory pathway. Vesicles undergo fast, directional transport directly to the site of exocytosis, which is most frequently near patches of LL5β, a complex that anchors microtubules to the plasma membrane. Membrane fusion occurs, displacing the virion a small distance across the plasma membrane. After exocytosis, particles remain tightly confined on the outer cell surface. Based on these findings and recent reports in the cell biological and alpha herpesvirus literature, the researchers propose an integrated model that links together the intracellular transport pathways and exocytosis mechanisms that mediate alpha herpesvirus egress.
 Recent experiments on the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster have revealed that it has a dedicated mechanism for forgetting, which is linked to optimal decision making in a stochastic environment. This active form of forgetting, which lacks a satisfactory functional explanation, allows the fly to reduce the odds of missing future reward by trading the risk of immediate pain for information gain and thus forgetting faster after aversive conditioning. A simple neuronal network reproduces these features, suggesting that forgetting in Drosophila appears as an optimal adaptive behavior in a changing environment. This view is in line with the idea that forgetting is adaptive rather than a consequence of limitations of the memory system.
 Leishmania parasites, which cause various forms of disease in humans and animals, exist as elongated extracellular promastigotes in insect vectors and as round-shaped amastigotes within phagolysosome-like Parasitophorous Vacuoles (PVs) of infected mammalian host cells. In this study, researchers investigated whether PVs of two different Leishmania species, Leishmania amazonensis and Leishmania major, could fuse with each other. They found that PVs containing L. amazonensis amastigotes did not fuse with those of L. major, but PVs containing L. major promastigotes could fuse with pre-existing L. amazonensis PVs. In these chimeric vacuoles, L. major promastigotes remained motile and multiplied but did not differentiate into amastigotes. However, in doubly infected cells, L. major promastigotes within their own unfused PVs differentiated into proliferating amastigotes. The results suggest that PVs differ in their ability to fuse with L. amazonensis PVs and that a species-specific PV is required for L. major destruction or differentiation. These findings should be useful in further studies of the interactions between PVs of different Leishmania species and of the mechanisms involved in the recognition and fusion of PVs.
 Schistosomiasis is a major public health issue, and while the drug praziquantel is currently used for control, it has limitations. Schistosoma japonicum, a parasitic worm that causes schistosomiasis, relies on insulin signaling for growth, development, sexual maturation, and egg production in adults. In this study, researchers focused on the insulin receptors (SjIRs) of S. japonicum, which they had previously cloned and partially characterized. They found that human insulin can bind the L1 subdomain (insulin binding domain) of recombinant SjIR1 and SjIR2 (SjLD1 and SjLD2).To further investigate the role of SjIRs, the researchers used RNA interference (RNAi) to knock down their expression in adult S. japonicum in vitro. They observed a decrease in transcription of the SjIRs and other important downstream genes associated with glucose metabolism and schistosome fecundity. Additionally, they found a significant decrease in glucose uptake in SjIR-knockdown worms compared to luciferase controls.In vaccine/challenge experiments, rSjLD1 and rSjLD2 depressed female growth, intestinal granuloma density, and faecal egg production in S. japonicum in mice presented with a low dose challenge infection. These findings re-emphasize the potential of the SjIRs as veterinary transmission blocking vaccine candidates against zoonotic schistosomiasis japonica in China and the Philippines.
 In this study, researchers analyzed the role of IL-17 and regulatory T cells (Treg) in the development of different clinical manifestations of human chronic Chagas' heart disease. Chagas' heart disease is a form of dilated cardiomyopathy caused by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi. The researchers hypothesized that patients with chronic Chagas' disease undergoing cardiomyopathy produce increased levels of IL-17 and have a reduced frequency or suppressive activity of Treg compared with those patients with the indeterminate form of the disease.To test this hypothesis, the researchers developed scenarios for alternative treatment goals, including control, elimination, and eradication of onchocerciasis, and compared treatment timelines and drug needs between the scenarios. They found that the elimination and eradication scenarios would require a shorter treatment phase and a smaller amount of ivermectin than the control scenario. This is likely due to the fact that community-directed treatment with ivermectin could be ended earlier in the elimination and eradication scenarios thanks to regular active surveillance.The researchers also investigated the mechanism by which Nef, a multifunctional pathogenicity factor expressed by primate lentiviruses, increases the infectivity of cell-free virions. They found that Nef confers resistance to two potent neutralizing monoclonal antibodies (nAbs) that target the membrane proximal external region (MPER) of TMgp41, but has no effect on HIV-1 neutralization by MPER-specific nAb Z13e1 or by the peptide inhibitor T20. This resistance to neutralization by 2F5 and 4E10 was observed with Nef from a diverse range of HIV-1 and SIV isolates, as well as with HIV-1 virions bearing Env from CCR5- and CXCR4-tropic viruses, clade B and C viruses, or primary isolates.Overall, these studies have important implications for anti-HIV-1 immunity and AIDS pathogenesis. The findings on Nef's ability to protect lentiviruses from one of the most broadly-acting classes of neutralizing antibodies provide new insights into the mechanisms of viral evasion and the development of effective vaccines and therapies.
 In this study, researchers investigated the role of the zebrafish gene magellan (mgn) in egg polarity and Balbiani body formation. They identified a mutation in the gene as a 31 base pair deletion in the coding sequence of the microtubule actin crosslinking factor 1 (macf1) gene. Macf1 is a spectraplakin protein that plays important roles in polarized cells such as epithelial cells, neurons, and muscle cells. In the oocyte, macf1 function is required for proper oocyte polarity and Balbiani body formation. The results provide insight into the role of spectraplakins during vertebrate oogenesis and demonstrate the feasibility of a new technique for the efficient identification of mutations.
 In this study, researchers investigated the role of the ATM-p53-p21 axis in the PGC depletion observed in a Fancm mouse model. Fancm is a gene that is important for repair of DNA damage that occurs during replication, and its mutation specifically affects PGCs, leading to reduced numbers of germ cells in neonates of both sexes and progressive loss of germ cells in adult males. The researchers found that the ATM-p53-p21 axis contributes to the PGC depletion in this model, highlighting the critical importance of genome maintenance in these cells that undergo rapid cellular proliferation during development.
 Chagas disease, caused by the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi, affects around 8-15 million people in Latin America. While some individuals remain asymptomatic, others develop chronic chagasic cardiomyopathy (CCC) with parasite persistence and CD8-enriched myocarditis. The mechanisms behind CCC are not well understood, but CD8+ T-cells are believed to play a role in both parasite control and heart tissue injury. In this study, we investigated the role of CD8+ T-cells in T. cruzi-elicited heart injury in C57BL/6 mice infected with the Colombian strain. Our results showed that most CD8+ T-cells were segregated into CD8+ interferon-gamma (IFNγ) +perforin (Pfn) neg and CD8+IFNγnegPfn+ cell populations. Importantly, the enrichment of chronic myocarditis in anti-parasite CD8+Pfn+ cells paralleled the worsening of CCC. CD8+ cells from infected ifnγ−/−pfn+/+ donors migrated towards the cardiac tissue to a greater extent than did CD8+ cells from ifnγ+/+pfn−/− donors. Furthermore, accumulation of IFNγ+ cells in the cardiac tissue ameliorated cardiomyocyte lesion, whereas enrichment in CD8+Pfn+ cells aggravated cardiomyocyte injury. These findings suggest that CD8+IFNγ+ cells are beneficial, whereas CD8+Pfn+ cells are detrimental in T. cruzi-elicited heart injury.Lectin-like bacteriotoxic proteins, identified in several plant-associated bacteria, are able to selectively kill closely related species, including several phytopathogens. The crystal structure of LlpABW, the prototype lectin-like bacteriocin from Pseudomonas putida, reveals an architecture of two monocot mannose-binding lectin (MMBL) domains and a C-terminal β-hairpin extension. The C-terminal MMBL domain adopts a fold very similar to MMBL domains from plant lectins and contains a binding site for mannose and oligomannosides. Mutational analysis indicates that an intact sugar-binding pocket in this domain is crucial for bactericidal activity. The N-terminal MMBL domain adopts the same fold but is structurally more divergent and lacks a functional mannose-binding site. Differential activity of engineered N/C-domain chimers derived from two LlpA homologues with different killing spectra revealed that the N-domain determines target specificity. This bacteriocin is assembled from two structurally similar domains that evolved separately towards dedicated functions in target recognition and bacteriotoxicity.In summary, our study provides new insights into the role of CD8+ T-cells in Chagas disease and the mechanisms behind chronic chagasic cardiomyopathy. Additionally, we report on the crystal structure of LlpABW, a novel family of antibacterial proteins, and explore how domain architecture and specific structural elements contribute to its activity and specificity.
 In this study, researchers investigated the presence of metastrongyloid lungworms in the invasive giant African snail, Lissachatina fulica, in Colombia. The snails were collected from six municipalities, and metastrongyloid larvae were found in 53.3% of the snails from Puerto Leguizamo, 8.4% from Andes, and 6.3% from Tulua. The species identified included Aelurostrongylus abstrusus, Angiostrongylus vasorum, Troglostrongylus brevior, and Crenosoma vulpis. This is the first report of the presence of these lungworms in L. fulica in Colombia. The findings highlight the importance of evaluating the role of gastropods as intermediate hosts in the life cycles of these parasites, and the potential impact on the health of domestic and wild animals and humans.
 Collective behavior is a widespread phenomenon in biology, from cell colonies to bird flocks and fish schools. The most prominent trait of collective behavior is the emergence of global order, where individuals synchronize their states, giving the impression that the group behaves as one. However, it is unclear whether global order is present in all biological systems, particularly in insect swarms. Swarms of midges, for example, display erratic movements and it is debated whether they behave truly collectively.To investigate this, researchers studied swarms of midges in the field and measured how much the change of direction of one midge affects that of other individuals. They discovered that swarms display very strong correlations, despite the lack of collective order. These correlations are incompatible with models of non-interacting particles and increase sharply with swarm density. The interaction between midges is based on a metric perception mechanism.By means of numerical simulations, the researchers demonstrated that such growing correlation is typical of a system close to an ordering transition. Their findings suggest that correlation, rather than order, is the true hallmark of collective behavior in biological systems.In summary, the study challenges the common perception that collective behavior requires the emergence of global order and highlights the importance of correlation in biological systems. The findings have implications for understanding the underlying mechanisms of collective behavior in various contexts, from animal behavior to crowd dynamics.
 Acinetobacter baumannii, a common pathogen, has recently become resistant to multiple drugs, posing a major health problem. Ethanol has been shown to increase the virulence of A. baumannii in Dictyostelium discoideum and Caenorhabditis elegans models of infection. To understand how ethanol affects A. baumannii, researchers used RNA-Seq to analyze the transcriptional profile of A. baumannii grown in the presence or absence of ethanol. They found that ethanol induces the expression of 49 genes, including metabolic enzymes, stress proteins, permeases, efflux pumps, and a secreted phospholipase C. In stationary phase, ethanol strongly induced several genes involved with iron assimilation and a high-affinity phosphate transport system. Additionally, a plc1 deletion mutant exhibited a reduction in A. baumannii-induced cytotoxicity of epithelial cells, suggesting that phospholipase C acts as a virulence factor. Overall, this study highlights the power of RNA-Seq in identifying key modulators of bacterial pathogenesis and suggests that the effect of ethanol on A. baumannii virulence is multifactorial and includes a general stress response and other specific components such as phospholipase C.
 Chagas disease, a vector-borne parasitic disease endemic to Latin America, affects millions of people and causes significant health burden. While efforts to control domiciled triatomine vectors through insecticide spraying and housing improvement have been successful, non-domiciled vectors remain a challenge for disease control. A mathematical model was developed to predict the temporal variations in abundance of non-domiciled vectors inside houses using demographic parameters. The model accurately fitted and predicted field data in the absence and presence of insecticide spraying. Pyrethroid spraying was found effective when applied yearly within a two-month period matching the immigration season, but larger doses or more frequent interventions did not improve the >80% reduction in bug abundance. Alternatively, the use of insect screens consistently reduced bug abundance proportionally to the reduction of the vector immigration rate. Control of non-domiciled vectors cannot be achieved by insecticide spraying alone due to the need for yearly application and an accurate understanding of the temporal pattern of immigration. Insect screens offer an effective and sustainable alternative for the integrated control of neglected vector-borne diseases.
 In this study, we investigated the humoral and proliferative responses, as well as cytokine production to Phlebotomus papatasi salivary gland extracts (SGE) in individuals living in cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) old or emerging foci. We found that individuals from the old focus, characterized by a higher infection prevalence, had higher anti-SGE cellular and humoral responses and a skew towards a Th2 response. No correlation was observed between anti-saliva immune responses and leishmanin skin test (LST) response. High anti-SGE IgG responses were associated with an increased risk of developing ZCL. No differences were observed for anti-SGE humoral or cellular responses among naïve individuals who converted or not their LST response or developed or not ZCL after the transmission season. Our findings suggest that individuals living in an old focus develop higher anti-SGE IgG responses and IFN-γ levels and a skew towards a Th2-type cellular response, probably in favor of parasite establishment, compared to those living in an emerging focus. Understanding the impact of host immune response to sand fly saliva on Leishmania infection development and the correlations between anti-saliva immune response and leishmaniasis outcome during natural exposure is crucial for the development of effective strategies for controlling and preventing leishmaniasis.
 In this study, we investigated the role of human papillomavirus (HPV) on the inflammasome pathway, specifically focusing on the interaction between HPV16 oncoprotein E6 and the interferon regulatory factor 6 (IRF6), which regulates IL-1β promoter activity. Our findings reveal that HPV16 inhibits IRF6 transcription through E6, leading to a block in IL-1β production. This is an important discovery as IL-1β is crucial in host defenses towards infection and injury, and its regulation is controlled by two checkpoints: the activation and translocation of the nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) and post-translational regulation of pro-IL-1β into its cleaved form by the inflammasome cytosolic multi-protein complex. Our results highlight the struggle between oncoviral persistence and host immunity, which is centered on IL-1β regulation. Further studies are needed to fully understand the implications of these findings in the context of HPV infection and disease progression.Keywords: HPV, IL-1β, inflammasome, IRF6, p53, oncovirus, immune response, interferon regulatory factor.Abstract:Human papillomavirus (HPV) is a double-stranded DNA virus that infects epithelial cells and is the etiological agent of various types of cancer, including cervical cancer. HPV16 is the most common HPV type associated with cervical cancer and is known to block innate immune responses and persist in the host. However, the immune response attempts to clear the infection, and IL-1β is a powerful cytokine produced when viral motifs are sensed by innate receptors that are members of the inflammasome family. Whether oncoviruses such as HPV16 can activate the inflammasome pathway remains unknown. In this study, we show that infection of human keratinocytes with HPV16 induced the secretion of IL-1β, but upon expression of the viral early genes, IL-1β transcription was blocked. We went on to show that expression of the viral oncoprotein E6 in human keratinocytes inhibited IRF6 transcription, which we revealed regulated IL-1β promoter activity. Preventing E6 expression using siRNA or using E6 mutants that prevented degradation of p53 showed that p53 regulated IRF6 transcription. HPV16 abrogation of p53 binding to the IRF6 promoter was shown by ChIP in tissues from patients with cervical cancer. Thus, E6 inhibition of IRF6 is an escape strategy used by HPV16 to block the production of IL-1β. Our findings reveal a struggle between oncoviral persistence and host immunity, which is centered on IL-1β regulation.Introduction:The innate immune system is the first line of defense against danger signals from microbial invasion or tissue injury. Viruses are sensed by several immune receptors that activate signaling pathways leading to cytokine production. Many oncogenic viruses can deregulate several immune-related pathways, which guarantee a persistent infection. Among the high-risk human papillomaviruses (HR HPV), HPV16 is the most prevalent type in premalignant and malignant cervical lesions. Persistence and progression of the disease are achieved by deregulating both cellular and immune defense mechanisms. The influence of the infecting HPV species on treatment outcome is well established, and species identification is important to determine the clinical prognosis and to select the most appropriate therapeutic regimen. In current clinical practice, treatment decision is generally presumptive, with the infecting species being suspected on epidemiological and clinical grounds. However, this approach requires specific clinical expertise and frequently updated knowledge of the geographic distribution of HPV species. A simple, rapid method to type cultured isolates would facilitate an easier and more robust treatment decision based on confirmed species identification. Available methods to type Leishmania in cultured isolates or directly in lesions are still complex and poorly standardized. At present, isolation of the parasite in culture is necessary for identification by multilocus enzyme electrophoresis (MLEE), which has long been the reference for Leishmania species identification. Only a few specialized centers currently perform MLEE, and the result is available several weeks after the parasite has been cultured in vitro. These difficulties have led to the development of molecular methods for species identification, which can be applied directly to biological samples
 In this study, we investigated the role of MALAT1, a highly abundant nucleus-restricted RNA, in cell cycle progression. MALAT1 interacts with several pre-mRNA splicing factors and modulates their cellular distribution and activity, thereby influencing alternative splicing of pre-mRNAs. We found that MALAT1 levels are regulated during the cell division cycle, and its differential levels during specific cell cycle stages influence the expression of genes involved in cell cycle progression. Depletion of MALAT1 in normal human diploid fibroblasts induced DNA damage response and resulted in the activation of p53 and its target genes. The cell cycle defects observed in MALAT1-depleted cells were sensitive to the cellular levels of p53, indicating that p53 is an important effector of MALAT1 function. Furthermore, we established that the pro-proliferative role of MALAT1 is accomplished by its involvement in regulating the expression and/or pre-mRNA processing of oncogenic transcription factors, especially those that control mitotic progression. Overall, our findings provide mechanistic insights into the role of MALAT1 in regulating cellular proliferation.Keywords: MALAT1, cell cycle, pre-mRNA splicing, p53, oncogenic transcription factors.Abstract:The long noncoding RNA MALAT1 is upregulated in cancer tissues and its elevated expression is associated with hyper-proliferation. However, the underlying mechanism is poorly understood. In this study, we demonstrate that MALAT1 levels are regulated during normal cell cycle progression. Genome-wide transcriptome analyses in normal human diploid fibroblasts reveal that MALAT1 modulates the expression of cell cycle genes and is required for G1/S and mitotic progression. Depletion of MALAT1 leads to activation of p53 and its target genes, and cell cycle defects sensitive to p53 levels. Furthermore, MALAT1-depleted cells display reduced expression of B-MYB due to altered binding of splicing factors on B-MYB pre-mRNA and aberrant alternative splicing. In human cells, MALAT1 promotes cellular proliferation by modulating the expression and/or pre-mRNA processing of cell cycle–regulated transcription factors. These findings provide mechanistic insights on the role of MALAT1 in regulating cellular proliferation.Introduction:Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are a class of RNAs that are longer than 200 nucleotides and have recently emerged as important molecules in several cellular processes. They can act as a scaffold to keep several proteins tethered to a specific cellular compartment, act as a guide to recruit proteins to a specific chromatin site or influence local chromatin architecture, serve as structural components of specific sub-nuclear domains, or regulate transcription and RNA processing events and serve as precursors for small RNAs. Several lncRNAs exhibit temporal and spatial expression patterns or their expression is restricted to particular tissue or cell types or cell cycle stages, indicating vital and diverse biological roles of lncRNAs. A recent study demonstrated cell cycle-regulated expression of several of the lncRNAs in mammalian cells. Among these, the lncRNA MALAT1 is upregulated in several solid tumors and its differential expression is linked with cancer metastasis and recurrence. MALAT1 is a highly abundant nucleus-restricted RNA that localizes to nuclear speckles, a sub-nuclear domain suggested to coordinate RNA polymerase II transcription, pre-mRNA splicing, and mRNA export. MALAT1 interacts with several pre-mRNA splicing factors including serine arginine dipeptide-containing SR family splicing factors. Previous studies have shown that transient overexpression of MALAT1 enhances cellular proliferation in cell lines and tumor formation in nude mice, while depletion of MALAT1 in tumor cells reduces tumorigenicity. However, the mechanism by which MALAT1 promotes cellular proliferation is not well understood. In the present study, we examined the role of MALAT1 in cell cycle progression.Methods:To investigate the role of MALAT1 in cell cycle progression, we performed genome-wide transcriptome analyses in normal human
 West Nile virus (WNV) is a mosquito-borne virus that has been circulating in North America since 1999. House sparrows (HOSPs) are important hosts for WNV, contributing to its rapid spread across the U.S. However, recent studies suggest that the competence of HOSPs for WNV has decreased over time, indicating that they may have developed resistance to early WNV strains. Additionally, newer WNV strains generate higher peak viremias and mortality in contemporary HOSPs compared to the early NY99 strain. These findings suggest that opposing selective pressures in both the virus and avian host have resulted in a net increase in the level of host competence for currently circulating WNV strains in North American HOSPs. This means that HOSPs are still likely to be an important avian reservoir for WNV in the U.S., and WNV has adapted to its avian hosts during its emergence in North America.
 Trypanosomatids, a group of unicellular protists that includes human pathogens such as Leishmania, Trypanosoma brucei, and Trypanosoma cruzi, have recently had their genomes analyzed, revealing the presence of non-long-terminal repeat retrotransposons or retroposons. These elements, identified by a 79-bp signature sequence, are abundant in the genomes of T. cruzi and T. brucei but absent in Leishmania major. In Leishmania major, two new families of small elements, LmSIDER1 and LmSIDER2, have been identified, which fulfill all the characteristics of extinct trypanosomatid retroposons. LmSIDERs are predominantly located in the 3'-untranslated regions (3'UTRs) of L. major mRNAs and act as mRNA instability elements, leading to lower expression levels of LmSIDER-containing mRNAs compared to non-LmSIDER mRNAs. The expansion of LmSIDERs within 3'UTRs in an organism lacking transcriptional control suggests that Leishmania have recycled these short retroposons to globally modulate the expression of a number of genes, marking the first example of the domestication and expansion of a family of mobile elements in eukaryotes to fulfill a critical cellular function.
 Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) is a mosquito-borne disease that has seen a resurgence in recent years. Two main outbreaks of CHIKV were detected in Singapore in 2008, with viruses isolated from each outbreak showing different genetic variations. One outbreak strain had alanine at amino acid residue 226 of the E1 glycoprotein (CHIKV-A226), while the other had valine at the same residue (CHIKV-226V). The two strains resulted in variation in sensitivities of diagnostic assays.Two commercial assays, a CTK lateral flow rapid test and an EUROIMMUN IFA assay, were compared with two in-house MAC-ELISA assays for the detection of anti-CHIKV IgM. The MAC-ELISA assays used whole virus-based antigens derived from the two distinct CHIKV strains. The sensitivities of the two PCR protocols were also tested.The study found that the sensitivities of the two MAC-ELISA assays varied between the two outbreaks. For sera from the January outbreak, the average detection threshold of CTK lateral flow test, MAC-ELISAs, and EUROIMMUN IFA assays was 3.75, 4.38, and 4.88 days post fever onset, respectively. However, IgM detection using CTK lateral flow test was delayed to more than 7 days after fever onset in the second outbreak sera. MAC-ELISA using CHIKV-226V detected IgM in the second outbreak sera 3.96 days after fever onset, which was approximately one day earlier compared to the same assay using CHIKV-A226 (4.86 days). Specificity was 100% for both commercial assays and 95.6% for the in-house MAC-ELISAs.The findings suggested that the two strains of CHIKV using variants A226 and 226V resulted in variation in sensitivities of the assays evaluated. The observed difference in antigen efficacy could be due to the amino acid substitution differences in viral E1 and E2 envelope proteins, especially the E1-A226V substitution.The evaluation demonstrates the importance of appraisal of different diagnostic assays before their application in clinical and operational settings.
 In this study, researchers investigated the susceptibility of Phlebotomus argentipes, the vector of Leishmaniasis donovani responsible for visceral leishmaniasis, to DDT and deltamethrin in India and Nepal. Standard WHO testing procedures were used, and the effect of the physiological status of females and the optimal time of exposure for deltamethrin were evaluated. The results showed that both DDT and deltamethrin killed a significant percentage of sand flies in both countries, but resistance to DDT was confirmed in Bihar and a border village of Nepal. The low effectiveness of indoor spraying with DDT in Bihar to control visceral leishmaniasis was partially explained by this resistance, and other classes of insecticides should be tested. In both countries, P. argentipes sand flies were susceptible to deltamethrin.
 In multicellular organisms, tight regulation of gene expression is crucial for appropriate tissue and organismal growth throughout development. Reversible phosphorylation of the RNA Polymerase II (RNAPII) C-terminal domain (CTD) plays a critical role in this regulation, but how phosphorylation is actively modified in a developmental context remains poorly understood.One enzyme reported to dephosphorylate the RNAPII CTD is protein phosphatase 1 (PP1). However, the contribution of PP1 to transcriptional regulation during animal development and the mechanisms by which its activity is targeted to RNAPII have not been fully elucidated.In this study, researchers investigated the role of PP1 in transcriptional regulation during Drosophila development by focusing on the Drosophila orthologue of the PP1 Nuclear Targeting Subunit (dPNUTS). They found that dPNUTS is essential for organismal development and is cell autonomously required for growth of developing tissues. The function of dPNUTS in tissue development depends on its binding to PP1, which is targeted by dPNUTS to RNAPII at many active sites of transcription on chromosomes.Loss of dPNUTS function or specific disruption of its ability to bind PP1 results in hyperphosphorylation of the RNAPII CTD in whole animal extracts and on chromosomes. Furthermore, RNA-Sequencing (RNA-Seq) analysis indicates that dPNUTS affects the expression of the majority of genes in developing 1st instar larvae, including those that promote proliferative growth.These findings shed light on the in vivo role of the PNUTS-PP1 holoenzyme and its contribution to the control of gene expression during early Drosophila development.
 In this study, researchers investigated the role of skin-resident macrophages in the activation of hair follicle stem cells (HF-SCs) during the hair cycle. They found that a fraction of resident macrophages undergoes death and activation, resulting in the release of Wnt ligands that in turn activate HF-SCs. This discovery provides new insights into the mechanisms controlling endogenous stem cell pools and may have implications for regeneration, aging, and cancer. The findings were significant in African Americans, who have a higher PR interval duration compared to other ancestral groups. Genome-wide association (GWA) studies identified a strong signal within the cardiac sodium channel (SCN5A) gene, which was associated with PR interval duration in two of the four African American cohorts and in the meta-analysis. This SNP explained 2% of PR interval variability in African Americans and was also associated with PR interval duration in individuals of European ancestry, but with a smaller effect size. Further meta-analysis identified genome-wide significant associations with SNPs in SCN10A, MEIS1, and TBX5, which were highly correlated with SNPs identified in European and Asian GWA studies. Overall, this study demonstrates the relevance of common variants to African Americans at four loci previously associated with PR interval in European and Asian samples and identifies an association signal at one of these loci that is more strongly associated with PR interval in African Americans than in Europeans.
 In the complex neural networks of the brain, inhibitory interneurons play a crucial role in shaping the firing patterns of principal neurons. Two common inhibitory network motifs are feed-forward (FF) and feedback (FB). In the locust olfactory system, it was proposed that lateral horn interneurons (LHNs) provide feed-forward inhibition onto Kenyon cells (KCs) to maintain their sparse firing, a property critical for olfactory learning and memory. However, recent studies have established that a single inhibitory cell, the giant GABAergic neuron (GGN), is the main source of inhibition in the mushroom body, and that inhibition from this cell is mediated by a feedback loop including KCs and the GGN. To better understand the differences between FF and FB inhibition in circuit dynamics, a model of the locust olfactory system was developed. The study found that both inhibitory motifs were able to maintain sparse KCs responses and provide optimal odor discrimination. However, only FB inhibition could create a phase response consistent with data recorded in vivo. These findings describe general rules for feed-forward versus feedback inhibition and suggest that the GGN is potentially capable of providing the primary source of inhibition to the KCs. A better understanding of how inhibitory motifs impact post-synaptic neuronal activity could be used to reveal unknown inhibitory structures within biological networks.
 The BRCA Challenge is a long-term data-sharing project aimed at aggregating BRCA1 and BRCA2 data to support collaborative research activities. Its goal is to generate an informed and current understanding of the impact of genetic variation on cancer risk across these iconic cancer predisposition genes. The project began by integrating existing variants from public databases into a single website, www.brcaexchange.org, to provide a reliable and easily accessible record of variants interpreted for a high-penetrance phenotype. Over 20,000 variants have been aggregated, three times the number found in the next-largest public database, of which approximately 7,250 have expert classifications. The data set is based on shared information from existing clinical databases, such as Breast Cancer Information Core (BIC), ClinVar, and the Leiden Open Variation Database (LOVD), as well as population databases. The BRCA Challenge has brought together the existing international Evidence-based Network for the Interpretation of Germline Mutant Alleles (ENIGMA) consortium expert panel, along with expert clinicians, diagnosticians, researchers, and database providers, all with a common goal of advancing our understanding of BRCA1 and BRCA2 variation. Ongoing work includes direct contact with national centers with access to BRCA1 and BRCA2 diagnostic data to encourage data sharing, development of methods suitable for extraction of genetic variation at the level of individual laboratory reports, and engagement with participant communities to enable a more comprehensive understanding of the clinical significance of genetic variation in BRCA1 and BRCA2.
 Trypanosomatids, a group of unicellular protists that includes human pathogens such as Leishmania, Trypanosoma brucei, and Trypanosoma cruzi, have recently had their genomes sequenced and analyzed. These organisms were found to contain non-long-terminal repeat retrotransposons, or retroposons, which are mobile genetic elements that can move from one location in the genome to another through reverse transcription of an RNA intermediate. Using the 79-bp signature sequence common to all trypanosomatid retroposons as a search term, two new families of small elements, LmSIDER1 and LmSIDER2, were identified in the Leishmania major genome. These elements are predominantly located in the 3'-untranslated regions (3'UTRs) of L. major mRNAs and represent the most abundant TEs now characterized in trypanosomatid genomes. Experimental evidence suggests that LmSIDER2 acts as an mRNA instability element and that LmSIDER2-containing mRNAs are generally expressed at lower levels compared to non-LmSIDER2 mRNAs. The expansion of LmSIDERs within 3'UTRs in an organism lacking transcriptional control and their role in regulating mRNA stability indicate that Leishmania have probably recycled these short retroposons to globally modulate the expression of a number of genes. This is the first example of the domestication and expansion of a family of mobile elements that have evolved to fulfill a critical cellular function.
 The Type IV Secretion System (T4SS) in Agrobacterium tumefaciens is a versatile bacterial system that facilitates the transfer of both DNA and proteins to host cells. The VirB/D4 system, a typical T4SS, plays a crucial role in the transfer of the T-DNA complex from the bacterium to the host cell cytoplasm. In addition to the VirD2-T-DNA complex, the VirB/D4 system also translocates several effector proteins, including VirE2, VirE3, and VirF, which aid in the proper integration of the translocated DNA into the host genome.The VirD2-binding protein (VBP) is a key cytoplasmic protein that recruits the VirD2-T-DNA complex to the VirD4-coupling protein (VirD4 CP) of the VirB/D4 T4SS apparatus. Recent studies have revealed the crystal structure and functional analysis of the C-terminal domain of VBP, which mainly consists of α-helices and forms a tight dimer. This domain confirms the presence of a HEPN (higher eukaryotes and prokaryotes nucleotide-binding) fold.Biophysical studies show that VBP is a dimer in solution, and the HEPN domain is the dimerization domain. Substitution of key residues at the interface disrupts the dimerization of both the HEPN domain and full-length VBP, and only dimeric VBP can interact with VirD2 and VirD4 CP. Furthermore, only Agrobacterium harboring dimeric full-length VBP can induce tumors in plants.These findings provide valuable insights into the structural basis of the substrate recruiting function of VBP in the T4SS pathway of A. tumefaciens and other pathogenic bacteria employing similar systems.
 Dengue virus infections can result in a range of outcomes, from subclinical to severe dengue hemorrhagic fever or shock syndrome. The mechanisms behind these different clinical outcomes are not well understood. In this study, researchers collected blood samples from Thai school-aged children who later experienced subclinical or symptomatic dengue infections. Prior to infection, PBMC were stimulated in vitro with dengue virus and the secretion of 30 cytokines was measured. Significant differences were found in cytokine production based on both the type of dengue virus used for stimulation and the occurrence of clinical illness. For example, IL-15 and MCP-1 were produced at higher levels by PBMC from subjects who later developed symptomatic dengue infection, while IL-6 was produced by PBMC from all subjects who subsequently developed symptomatic infection versus 59% of those with subclinical infection. IL-12, IL-2R, MIP-1α, RANTES, GM-CSF, and TNFα were produced at significantly lower levels by PBMC from subjects with symptomatic infection. These findings suggest that pre-existing immune responses to dengue virus may play a role in disease outcome. The identification of clinical-immunological correlations in the context of natural dengue infection may be useful for evaluating immune responses to dengue vaccines.
