 The study investigates the development of neural networks in mice and humans. The authors found that the transition between immature and mature network dynamics is characterized by a decrease in coordinated cellular and synaptic activity at the beginning of the second postnatal week in mice and a similar developmental trajectory in humans. After this timepoint, precise neuronal synchronization and oscillatory coupling in space and time robustly emerged. These findings suggest that mechanisms to developmentally regulate functional network capacity may be evolutionarily conserved and manifest on the systems level as similar, discrete states.
 The authors of this study have found that a protein called RUNX1 is expressed in the cells lining the ducts of the mammary glands, except those that produce milk. Deleting the gene for RUNX1 in mice reduced the number of duct-lining cells, especially a subgroup of cells that are the sensors for the hormone estrogen. Through experiments on breast cancer cells, the authors found that RUNX1 is able to dictate the fate of duct-lining breast cells by controlling other protein regulators. RUNX1 boosts the activity of at least one regulator that encourages the cells to become duct-lining cells and represses another regulatory protein that turns cells into milk-producing cells. Next, the authors found that, in mice lacking the gene for RUNX1, reducing the amounts of certain proteins that normally suppress the formation of tumors restored the populations of estrogen-sensing duct-lining cells. This suggests that mutations in the gene encoding RUNX1, coupled with the loss of a tumor-suppressing protein, may contribute to the development of cancer in the cells that line the breast ducts. The next challenge is to determine exactly how RUNX1 mutations work together with the loss of a tumor-suppressing protein to drive breast cancer development. This knowledge may translate into new approaches to prevent or treat this type of breast cancer.
 We have previously shown that OCRL is a 5-phosphatase that is recruited to endocytic clathrin-coated pits and that it is required for normal endocytosis in Drosophila neurons . Here, we show that OCRL is required for normal endocytosis in human neurons as well. We found that OCRL is recruited to endocytic clathrin-coated pits in human neurons and that it is required for normal endocytosis in these cells. We also found that OCRL is required for normal actin polymerization in human neurons. These results suggest that OCRL plays a similar role in endocytosis and actin polymerization in both Drosophila and human neurons.
 The study aimed to investigate the mechanism of gradient formation of the morphogen Branchless (Bnl) in Drosophila. Bnl is a signaling protein that guides the branching morphogenesis of tracheal epithelial tubes. The study used genome-edited Bnl:GFP and Btl:Cherry constructs to visualize the distribution of Bnl with high sensitivity and precision. The results showed that Bnl moves target-specifically from the producing cells to the air-sac primordium (ASP) through cytonemes and forms a long-range concentration gradient. The study also demonstrated that Bnl functions as a morphogen and that a novel self-regulatory mechanism of cytoneme-mediated signaling forms the Bnl morphogen gradient. These findings provide an example of morphogenesis in which cytoneme-dependent signaling can provide precision and adaptability in shaping long-range positional gradients and tissue architectures in space and time.
 The genetic diversity of a population is shaped by the movement of people and the mixing of different ancestral groups. Researchers have used the genetic data of people from different parts of the world to understand how these movements have affected the genetic makeup of populations. In a new study, researchers used the genetic data of people from sub-Saharan Africa to understand how the movement of people has affected the genetic makeup of these populations. They found that the genetic diversity of sub-Saharan African populations is shaped by the movement of people from different parts of the continent and from outside of the continent. They also found that the genetic diversity of sub-Saharan African populations is shaped by the movement of people from different ethnic groups within the continent. These findings provide important insights into the history and evolution of sub-Saharan African populations.
 The study by Alarcon-Martinez et al. (2018) aimed to investigate the mechanism of survival in the absence of LMP1/NFκB early after infection in EBV-immortalized B cells. The authors used BH3 profiling to query mitochondrial regulation of apoptosis and defined a transition from uninfected B cells (BCL-2) to early-infected (MCL-1/BCL-2) and immortalized cells (BFL-1). This dynamic change in B cell survival mechanisms is unique to virus-infected cells and relies on regulation of MCL-1 mitochondrial localization and BFL-1 transcription by the viral EBNA3A protein. The study provides new insights into the mechanism of EBV lymphomagenesis and may help to develop new therapeutic strategies for EBV-associated malignancies.
 The inferior colliculus (IC) is a key brain region for auditory processing. We have identified a novel class of neurons in the IC, called VIP neurons, which are glutamate-rich and project to multiple brain regions. VIP neurons are labeled in the VIP-IRES-Cre mouse line and are present in the caudal regions of the IC, where most ascending input originates from the contralateral IC and auditory brainstem. VIP neurons project to multiple auditory and non-auditory brain regions and receive input from the contralateral IC and auditory brainstem. Input from the auditory brainstem also drives local, feedforward inhibition onto VIP neurons. VIP neurons integrate input from the contralateral IC and auditory brainstem and are grayscale-rich. VIP neurons are grayscale-rich and project to multiple brain regions. VIP neurons are labeled in the VIP-IRES-Cre mouse line and are present in the caudal regions of the IC, where most ascending input originates from the contralateral IC and auditory brainstem. VIP neurons project to multiple auditory and non-auditory brain regions and receive input from the contralateral IC and auditory brainstem. Input from the auditory brainstem also drives local, feedforward inhibition onto VIP neurons. VIP neurons integrate input from the contralateral IC and auditory brainstem and are grayscale-rich. VIP neurons are grayscale-rich and project to multiple brain regions. VIP neurons are labeled in the VIP-IRES-Cre mouse line and are present in the caudal regions of the IC, where most ascending input originates from the contralateral IC and auditory brainstem. VIP neurons project to multiple auditory and non-auditory brain regions and receive input from the contralateral IC and auditory brainstem. Input from the auditory brainstem also drives local, feedforward inhibition onto VIP neurons. VIP neurons integrate input from the contralateral IC and auditory brainstem and are grayscale-rich. VIP neurons are grayscale-rich and project to multiple brain regions. VIP neurons are labeled in the VIP-IRES-Cre mouse line and are present in the caudal regions of the IC, where most ascending input originates from the contralateral IC and auditory brainstem. VIP neurons project to multiple auditory and non-auditory brain regions and receive input from the contralateral IC and auditory brainstem. Input from the auditory brainstem also drives local, feedforward inhibition onto VIP neurons. VIP neurons integrate input from the contralateral IC and auditory brainstem and are grayscale-rich. VIP neurons are grayscale-rich and project to multiple brain regions. VIP neurons are labeled in the VIP-IRES-Cre mouse line and are present in the caudal regions of the IC, where most ascending input originates from the contralateral IC and auditory brainstem. VIP neurons project to multiple auditory and non-auditory brain regions and receive input from the contralateral IC and auditory brainstem. Input from the auditory brainstem also drives local, feedforward inhibition onto VIP neurons. VIP neurons integrate input from the contralateral IC and auditory brainstem and are grayscale-rich. VIP neurons are grayscale-rich and project to multiple brain regions. VIP neurons are labeled in the VIP-IRES-Cre mouse line and are present in the caudal regions of the IC, where most ascending input originates from the contralateral IC and auditory brainstem. VIP neurons project to multiple auditory and non-auditory brain regions and receive input from the contralateral IC and auditory brainstem. Input from the auditory brainstem also drives local, feedforward inhibition onto VIP neurons. VIP neurons integrate input from the contralateral IC and auditory brainstem and are grayscale-rich. VIP neurons are grayscale-rich and project to multiple brain regions. VIP neurons are labeled in the VIP-IRES-Cre mouse line and are present in the caudal regions of the IC, where most ascending input originates from the contralateral IC and auditory brainstem. VIP neurons project to multiple auditory and non-auditory brain regions and receive input from the
 The study of the structural biology and molecular biophysics of Swi2/Snf2 ATPases has been limited by the lack of high-resolution structures of these enzymes bound to their substrate proteins and DNA. In this study, we report the crystal structure of the N-terminal domain of Encephalitozoon cuniculi Mot1 (Mot1NTD) in complex with TATA box-binding protein (TBP), negative cofactor 2 (NC2), and a TATA promoter DNA fragment. Our study provides the first pseudoatomic view of a Swi2/Snf2 ATPase in complex with a DNA:protein substrate complex. The Mot1NTD structure reveals a horseshoe-like arrangement of 16 HEAT repeats that are arranged in a way that allows the latch to bind to TBP's concave site and block TBP-DNA association. The Mot1:TBP:DNA complex is much more stable in the presence of NC2, which is a heterodimer composed of α and β subunits that highly resemble histones H2A and H2B, respectively. Our study provides insights into the mechanism of action of Swi2/Snf2 ATPases and their role in chromatin remodeling.
 The genomes of living organisms consist of thousands of genes that produce proteins that perform many essential functions. Cells receive signals from both their internal and external environments, and respond by changing how they express their genes. This allows a cell to make the right amount of different proteins when needed. The proteins that a cell produces can then , in turn , influence how the cell's genes are expressed . This set of interactions between genes and proteins is called a gene regulatory network , and is akin to a computer program that the cell runs to define its behaviour . At present , we understand very little about why these networks take on the forms seen in living cells . A remarkable feature of living organisms is their ability to withstand an extremely wide variety of predicators , such as DNA damage , physical trauma or exposure to toxins . This ability , generally called robustness , requires a cell to rapidly activate different gene sets and maintain their activity for as long as necessary . However , very little is known about how cells are programmed to respond appropriately , whatever happens , and keep themselves in a stable state . Here we consider the hypothesis that to confer robustness and promote evolvability , GRNs must be stable to changes in interaction parameters and also stable to the addition of new regulatory links , that is to changes in the structure of the GRN itself . By analysing data that is already available about GRNs in a wide selection of organisms ranging from bacteria to humans , we show that published GRNs deviate strongly from BQS , suggesting that the loss of BQS may play an important role in cancer . In addition , using BQR to analyse the gene regulatory network of bacteria such as E . coli reveals points in the network that , if disrupted , would make the network unstable , potentially harming the cell . Therefore , in the future , an understanding of BQS could help efforts to design new drugs to treat a range of infections and diseases .
 The primary cilium is a non-motile microtubule-based organelle that plays a critical role in signaling and cell differentiation. It is composed of a basal body and a motile axoneme. The basal body is organized into a centriolar apparatus, which is required for the assembly of the axoneme. The axoneme is composed of microtubules that are post-translationally modified to form a stable structure. The length and stability of the axoneme are regulated by the activity of the anaphase promoting complex (APC). APC is a ubiquitin E3 ligase that targets key regulators of the metaphase to anaphase transition for proteolysis. APC is localized to the basal body of the primary cilium, where it negatively regulates the length and stability of the axoneme. During exit from the quiescent (G0) state, APC is activated and drives ciliary resorption. The APC is also involved in the regulation of ciliary polarity during dendrite morphogenesis in postmitotic neurons. The authors show that APC-Cdc20 is central to the regulation of the primary cilium. The APC-Cdc20 complex targets the Nek1 enzyme for proteolysis, which is localized to the basal body. The authors also show that APC-Cdc20 is involved in the regulation of ciliary polarity during dendrite morphogenesis in postmitotic neurons. The authors conclude that the APC-Cdc20 complex plays a critical role in the regulation of the primary cilium and that it is a potential target for the treatment of ciliopathies.
 The study of Krishnan et al. used a computer model to investigate the role of two interrelated pathways in the biosynthesis of cholesterol from lanosterol. The two pathways are the Bloch pathway and the Kandutsch–Russell (K–R) pathway. The Bloch pathway is the traditional pathway for cholesterol biosynthesis, while the K–R pathway is a recently discovered alternative pathway. The study found that the two pathways are not used in isolation, but rather in a hybrid manner. The study also found that the relative use of the two pathways is highly variable and tissue-specific. The study used stable isotope labeling to measure the flux of substrate through the two pathways in cultured cells and in vivo in the tissues of mice. The study found that the Bloch pathway is used exclusively in the testes and adrenal glands, while the K–R pathway is used in the skin and brain. The study also found that the order of C4 trait acquisition is flexible and driven by non-photosynthetic drivers. The study used a Bayesian approach based on a hidden Markov model to predict how the C4 phenotype evolved. The study found that the evolution of C4 photosynthesis was driven by multiple ecological drivers, including decreasing atmospheric CO2 concentration. The study also found that the evolution of C4 photosynthesis was facilitated by the flexibility in the underlying molecular mechanisms. The study concludes that the evolution of complex traits is underpinned by flexibility in the underlying molecular mechanisms.
 In this study , we used RNA-seq and ribosome profiling to explore the mechanisms that drive host shutoff during IAV infection. We show that host shutoff is mainly achieved by reduction in cellular mRNAs levels , and that IAV transcripts are not preferentially translated . Furthermore , we show that host transcripts are affected differently by IAV infection and that the extent of mRNAs reduction is related to their length and GC content . Interestingly , we noticed that transcripts encoding oxidative phosphorylation related proteins are less affected by IAV infection , their protein levels remain stable throughout infection and their continuous expression supports the energetic demands that are essential for virus replication . Our systematic analysis also reveals that host transcripts are affected differently by IAV infection and that the extent of mRNAs reduction is related to their length and GC content . These results suggest that host shutoff is mainly achieved by reduction in cellular mRNAs levels , and that IAV transcripts are not preferentially translated . Our systematic analysis also reveals that host transcripts are affected differently by IAV infection and that the extent of mRNAs reduction is related to their length and GC content . Interestingly , we noticed that transcripts encoding oxidative phosphorylation related proteins are less affected by IAV infection , their protein levels remain stable throughout infection and their continuous expression supports the energetic demands that are essential for virus replication . Our systematic analysis also reveals that host transcripts are affected differently by IAV infection and that the extent of mRNAs reduction is related to their length and GC content . These results suggest that host shutoff is mainly achieved by reduction in cellular mRNAs levels , and that IAV transcripts are not preferentially translated . Furthermore , we show that host transcripts are affected differently by IAV infection and that the extent of mRNAs reduction is related to their length and GC content . Interestingly , we noticed that transcripts encoding oxidative phosphorylation related proteins are less affected by IAV infection , their protein levels remain stable throughout infection and their continuous expression supports the energetic demands that are essential for virus replication . Our systematic analysis also reveals that host transcripts are affected differently by IAV infection and that the extent of mRNAs reduction is related to their length and GC content . These results suggest that host shutoff is mainly achieved by reduction in cellular mRNAs levels , and that IAV transcripts are not preferentially translated . Here , we took a systemic approach to explore the relative contribution of direct co-opting of the translation machinery , and reduction of host RNA levels to the reduction in host protein synthesis . To this end , we have used RNA-seq , deep sequencing of ribosomes-protected fragments , and smFISH to globally map the changes in host genes RNA and translation levels during IAV infection . These comprehensive and simultaneous measurements complemented with smFISH revealed that host shutoff is mainly achieved by reduction in cellular mRNAs levels , and that IAV transcripts are not preferentially translated . Our systematic analysis also reveals that host transcripts are affected differently by IAV infection and that the extent of mRNAs reduction is related to their length and GC content . Interestingly , we noticed that transcripts encoding oxidative phosphorylation related proteins are less affected by IAV infection , their protein levels remain stable throughout infection and their continuous expression supports the energetic demands that are essential for virus replication . Our systematic analysis also reveals that host transcripts are affected differently by IAV infection and that the extent of mRNAs reduction is related to their length and GC content . These results suggest that host shutoff is mainly achieved by reduction in cellular mRNAs levels , and that IAV transcripts are not preferentially translated . Furthermore , we show that host transcripts are affected differently by IAV infection and that the extent of mRNAs reduction is related to their length and GC content . These results suggest that host shutoff is mainly achieved by reduction in cellular mRNAs levels , and that IAV transcripts are not preferentially translated . Our systematic analysis also reveals that host transcripts are affected differently by IAV infection and that the extent of mRNAs reduction is related to their length and GC content . These results suggest that host shutoff is mainly achieved by reduction in cellular mRNAs levels , and that IAV transcripts are not preferentially translated . Furthermore , we show that host transcripts are affected differently by IAV infection and that the extent of mRNAs reduction is related to their length and GC content . These results suggest that host shutoff is mainly achieved by reduction in cellular mRNAs levels , and that IAV transcript
 The transcription factor RpaA is the master regulator of circadian transcription in cyanobacteria , driving oscillations in mRNA abundance . Deletion of rpaA renders cells inviable in cycling conditions when light and dark periods alternate . We investigated the mechanisms underlying this viability defect , and demonstrate that the rpaA- strain cannot maintain appropriate energy status at night , does not accumulate carbon reserves during the day , and is defective in transcription of genes crucial for utilization of carbohydrate stores at night . Reconstruction of carbon utilization pathways combined with provision of an external carbon source restores energy charge and viability of the rpaA- strain in light/dark cycling conditions . Our observations highlight how a circadian output pathway controls and temporally coordinates essential pathways in carbon metabolism to maximize fitness of cells facing periodic energy limitations .
 The study by Sabnis et al. provides new insights into the mechanism of action of colistin, an antibiotic of last resort used to treat infections caused by highly resistant bacteria. The authors found that colistin disrupts both the outer and inner membranes of bacteria by interacting with lipopolysaccharides in the inner membrane. They also discovered that the inner membrane is more vulnerable to colistin than the outer membrane. The study provides a new understanding of how colistin works and could lead to the development of new approaches to improve its efficacy.
 'Hemogglobin ( Hb ) is a tetrameric allosteric protein responsible for tissue oxygen delivery in a manner controlled by the midpoint and slope of its oxygen saturation curve . These macroscopic parameters reflect the effective affinity ( p50 ) and cooperativity ( nH ) of oxygen binding by Hb , respectively and are traditionally evaluated using the Hill equation , derived assuming an all-or-none model of binding ( Hill , 1910 ) . Over the years , many studies have indicated that Hb oxygen affinity ( p50 ) is an adaptive trait , that is its value has been tuned during evolution so as to target tissue oxygen delivery to the particular metabolic requirements of vertebrates due to variations in body size , lifestyle and/or environmental conditions . For example , vetebrates native to mountain habitats where low ambient oxygen pressures prevail usually possess Hb that exhibits higher affinity for oxygen than does the same protein in lowland dwellers ( Lenfant , 1193; Bunn , 1980; Weber , 2007; Stoz and Moiyama , 2008; Stoz , 2016 ) . Likewise , Hb in small-sized animals that display high metabolic rates presents lower affinity for oxygen than does the same protein in large-sized animals , again reflecting the adaptive adjustment of tissue oxygen delivery . Accordingly , the need to also consider nH in addressing adaptation of Hb function becomes evident when we examine the implications of accepting the notion that molecular adaptation of Hb function in vertebrates relies primarily on its p50 affinity property . It would thus seem that the values of both p50 and nH of Hb should reflect physiological optimization of the tradeoff between O2 loading in the lungs and O2 unloading in tissues , so as to optimize tissue oxygen delivery . Although this is a seemingly obvious claim , it has yet to be tested experimentally . Here , we tested whether the values of both p50 and nH of Hb are indeed optimized in the case of body size-related adaptation of mammalian Hb , relying on extensive evolutionary and physiological oxygen saturation datasets available for mammalian Hb proteins . The former comprises a set of oxygen binding curves of homologous Hb proteins from different mammalian species , all measured under similar physiological conditions( Milo et al . , 2007; Rapp and Yifrach , 2017 ) . The latter comprises a set of binding curves of human Hb measured under a variety of different physiological conditions , that is , in the presence of different concentrations of H+ , CO2 and organophosphate , all inhibitory allosteric ligands of Hb ( Rapp and Yifrach , 2017 ) . For all data sets curves , reliable estimates for p50 and nH Hill parameters and for the elementary relative affinity ( c ) and conformational changes ( L ) parameters of the MWC concerted allosteric model ( Monod et al . , 1965; Rubin and Changeux , 1966 ) are available . By deciphering the explicit mathematical dependence of both p50 and nH on the MWC parameters of a tetrameric protein , we were able to draw the theoretical ‘biophysical Hill cooperativity landscape’ at half-satification that graphically describes how nH varies with changes in the values of the MWC parameters . The mapping of experimentally derived Hill and MWC parameters on this landscape provided insight into the mechanism underlying the adaptive behavior of p50 and nH with respect to tissue oxygen delivery by mammalian Hb and their relation to organism fitness . The principles underlying the ‘biophysical Hill cooperativity landscape’-mapping strategy are general and offer mechanistic-level understanding of how physiological and evolutionary variations operate to shape the molecular property of a protein .', Keyword: '['developmental biology']', Lay Summary: 'Hemogglobin ( Hb ) is a tetramerc allosteric protein responsible for tissue oxygen delivery in a manner controlled by the midpoint and slope of its oxygen saturation curve . These macroscopic parameters reflect the effective affinity ( p50 ) and cooperativity ( nH ) of oxygen binding by Hb , respectively and are traditionally evaluated using the Hill equation , derived assuming an all-or-none model of binding ( Hill , 1910 ) . Over the years , many studies have indicated that Hb oxygen affinity ( p50 ) is an adaptive trait , that is
 The human brain is a complex organ that is responsible for a wide range of functions, including memory, emotion, and behavior. Understanding how these functions are encoded and stored in the brain is a major goal of neuroscience. One way to study the brain is through the use of functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ), which measures changes in blood flow in response to various stimuli. In a recent study, researchers used fMRI to investigate the neural basis of memory encoding and retrieval in humans. They found that the brain regions involved in memory encoding and retrieval are distinct and that the patterns of activity in these regions are highly reliable. These findings suggest that the brain may use a neural code to represent memories, which could be useful for developing new memory storage technologies. Another way to study the brain is through the use of transcriptional analysis, which measures changes in gene activity in response to various stimuli. In a recent study, researchers used transcriptional analysis to investigate the neural basis of memory encoding and retrieval in mice. They found that the brain regions involved in memory encoding and retrieval are distinct and that the patterns of activity in these regions are highly reliable. These findings suggest that the brain may use a neural code to represent memories, which could be useful for developing new memory storage technologies. Together, these studies provide important insights into the neural basis of memory encoding and retrieval in humans and mice. They also highlight the potential for using neural codes to develop new memory storage technologies.
 The Golgi complex is a centralized sorting compartment in eukaryotic cells that regulates the trafficking of proteins to and from different cellular compartments. The regulatory domain of the Sec7 protein, which is involved in the trafficking of proteins to and from the Golgi complex, has been studied using X-ray crystallography. The results show that the regulatory domain of Sec7 is a single continuous structural domain that is responsible for regulating the trafficking of proteins to and from the Golgi complex. The findings of this study will help researchers better understand the mechanisms of protein trafficking in eukaryotic cells.
 The study of chromatin remodeling and histone modifications is crucial for understanding gene regulation and cellular differentiation. In Drosophila melanogaster, the DOMINO complex is responsible for incorporating the H2A.Z variant into chromatin. The study of alternative splicing of the DOMINO gene revealed two isoforms, DOM-A and DOM-B, which form distinct complexes with different functions. DOM-B is the main ATP-dependent remodeler for H2A.Z, while DOM-A is involved in H4K12 acetylation. The study highlights the importance of alternative splicing in generating functional diversity among chromatin regulators.
 Membrane nanodomains have been implicated in Ras signaling , but what these domains are and how they interact with Ras remain obscure . Here , using single particle tracking with photoactivated localization microscopy ( spt-PALM ) and detailed trajectory analysis , we show that distinct membrane domains dictate KRasG12D diffusion and trafficking in U2OS cells . KRasG12D exhibits an immobile state in ~70 nm domains , each embedded in a larger domain ( ~200 nm ) that confers intermediate mobility , while the rest of the membrane supports fast diffusion . Moreover , KRasG12D is continuously removed from the membrane via the immobile state and replenished to the fast state , reminiscent of Ras internalization and recycling . Importantly , both the diffusion and trafficking properties of KRasG12D remain invariant over a broad range of protein expression levels . Our results reveal how membrane organization dictates membrane diffusion and trafficking of Ras and offer new insight into the spatial regulation of Ras signaling .
 The authors of two recent articles claim to have found evidence for magnetosensation and magnetogenetics in living cells. The first article claims to have found a protein complex that acts like a compass needle to guide magnetic orientation in animals ( Qin et al . , 2016 ) . The second article reports magnetic control of membrane conductance by attaching ferritin to an ion channel protein and then tugging the ferritin or heating it with a magnetic field ( Stanley et al . , 2015; Wheeler et al . , 2016 ) . However, the authors of these articles have not considered the fundamental physical constraints on how magnetic fields can affect biological molecules and cells. Here, I argue that the reported phenomena are incompatible with these constraints. The paramagnetic nature of protein complexes is found to seriously limit their utility for engineering magnetogenetics. The physical laws by which magnetic fields act on matter are taught to science students in college ( Feynman et al . , 1963 ) . These principles impose some constraints on what biological mechanisms are plausible candidates for both magnetosensation and magnetogenetics. A recent spate of high-profile articles has put forward audacious proposals in this domain without any attempt at such reality checks. My goal here is to offer some calculations as a supplement to those articles, which makes them appear in a rather different light. These arguments should also help in evaluating future hypotheses and in engineering new molecular tools.
 In this study, the authors investigated the neural basis of a strategy used by individuals with congenital amusia to compensate for their impaired perception of pitch. Individuals with amusia have a lifelong history of unreliable pitch processing, which leads them to downweight pitch cues during speech perception. The authors used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate the neural basis of this strategy. They found that individuals with amusia had decreased functional connectivity between language-related regions and pitch-related regions during speech perception. The authors suggest that this decreased connectivity reflects the individuals' downweighting of pitch cues during speech perception. The study provides new insights into the neural basis of a strategy used by individuals with amusia to compensate for their impaired perception of pitch.
 The study aimed to understand the molecular mechanisms of ferritinophagy, a process by which ferritin is degraded to release iron for use by the cell. The authors identified NCOA4 as a selective cargo receptor for ferritinophagy and found that it interacts with FTH1, a subunit of ferritin, to target it for degradation. They also discovered that HERC2, an E3 ubiquitin ligase, is involved in the process and that it regulates NCOA4 turnover in an iron-dependent manner. The study provides insights into the molecular mechanisms of ferritinophagy and its role in iron metabolism.
 The innate immune response is a critical defense mechanism against invading pathogens. However, the role of interferon-stimulated ubl ISG15 during bacterial infection remains elusive. Here, we show that ISG15 is dramatically induced upon Listeria infection in nonphagocytic cells. Surprisingly, early induction can be type I interferon independent and depends on the cytosolic surveillance pathway ( CSP ). We identified protein targets of ISGylation following overexpression of ISG15 using stable isotope labeling in tissue culture ( SILAC ) analysis and uncovered a prominent enrichment in integral membrane proteins of the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus. This enrichment correlated with an increase in canonical secretion of cytokines known to control infection, highlighting a new mechanism of regulation of the host response to an intracytosolic pathogen.
 The study by Frankel et al. ( 2015 ) investigates the role of chemotaxis in the adaptation of bacterial populations to different environments. The authors use a mathematical model to simulate the behavior of bacterial populations in different environments and find that diversity in the population is beneficial for adaptation. The authors also propose a mechanism for how this diversity is generated and maintained in the population. The study provides insights into the mechanisms underlying the evolution of bacterial populations and the role of diversity in adaptation to changing environments.
