 The hippocampus is a key brain structure involved in memory storage and recall. However, the dynamics of memory recall from synapses with a limited dynamic range have not been well understood. Here, we develop a theory for efficient memory recall from bounded synapses that is consistent with the known biophysical properties of the hippocampus. We show that the dynamics of memory recall can be optimized by balancing the contributions of afferent and recurrent synapses to the network activity, and by exploiting oscillations in the activity of the network. Our theory predicts that memory recall is most efficient when the synapses are metaplastic, and when the activity of the network is modulated by feedback inhibition. We also show that the efficiency of memory recall can be further enhanced by biofilm-dependent transmission. Our results provide a novel framework for understanding the dynamics of memory recall in the hippocampus.
 This study provides a unique outlook at the complex interplay between endogenous and exogenous retroviruses during host evolution . We characterized the evolutionary history and molecular virology of 27 enJSRV proviruses in sheep, which are endogenous retroviruses that are transcriptionally active and have maintained intact open reading frames for some of their genes. We found that two enJSRV proviruses ( enJS56A1 and enJSRV-20 ) , which entered the host genome within the last 3 million y ( before and during speciation within the genus Ovis ) , acquired in two temporally distinct events a defective Gag polyprotein resulting in a transdominant phenotype able to block late replication steps of related exogenous retroviruses . Both transdominant proviruses became fixed in the host genome before or around sheep domestication ( ∼ 9 , 000 y ago ) . Interestingly , a provirus escaping the transdominant enJSRVs has emerged very recently , most likely within the last 200 y . This study provides data supporting a model of continuous coadaptation between retroviruses and their hosts . In particular , these studies determined that: ( i ) two enJSRV loci that entered the host genome before and during speciation within the genus Ovis , acquired in two temporally distinct events , the W21 residue in Gag conferring a transdominant blocking phenotype; ( ii ) both these transdominant enJSRVs loci became fixed in the host genome before or around sheep domestication; ( iii ) the invasion of the sheep genome by ERVs of the JSRV/enJSRVs group is still in progress; and ( iv ) proviruses recently emerged that can escape the transdominant enJSRV loci . This study provides a unique outlook at the complex interplay between endogenous and exogenous retroviruses during host evolution .
 The Drosophila embryonic gonad is assembled from two distinct cell types, the Primordial Germ Cells ( PGCs ) and the Somatic Gonadal Precursor cells ( SGPs ). The PGCs form at the posterior pole of blastoderm stage embryos and are subsequently carried inside the embryo during gastrulation. To reach the SGPs , the PGCs must traverse the midgut wall and then migrate through the mesoderm. A combination of local repulsive cues and attractive signals emanating from the SGPs guide migration. We have investigated the role of the hedgehog ( hh ) pathway gene shifted ( shf ) in directing PGC migration. shf encodes a secreted protein that facilitates the long distance transmission of Hh through the proteoglycan matrix after it is released from basolateral membranes of Hh expressing cells into and through the underlying mesodermal cell layer where Hh can contact migrating PGCs. We have demonstrated that shf is required for PGC migration and that its function is linked to the hmgcr→qm isoprenoid biosynthetic pathway. We have shown that hmgcr potentiates the transmission of Hh-GFP out of the nervous system and into the mesoderm where it associates with PGCs. Our findings suggest that therapeutic strategies modulating Hh signaling may be effective in ameliorating Alzheimer's Disease pathology associated with disruptions in lipid metabolism.
 In this study , we have developed a computational model of adult neurogenesis in a simplified hippocampal memory model . The model incorporated both a divgence in unit number between the EC and DG and sparse coding in the DG , both notable features of the hippochpus . We required the system to correctly encode and decode memory patterns under the constraint that the input statistics change over time . Such a change in input statistics might occur due to a change in the external environment , for example when an animal moves from one laboratory enclosure to another , producing different firing correlations in the entohinal cortex . In order to deal with these new correlations and correctly encode patterns drawn from the new input statistics the network typically must adapt its internal connectivity . We found that introducing a conventional form of plasticity , where existing synaptic connections can change over time , accommodated the new input statistics while at the same time preserving representations of earlier environments . This came at the expense of a lower representational power in the original environment due to the network having initially fewer intermediate layer units , but the increase in retrieval accuracy far outwehed the loss so that the network as a whole operated with a much higher fidelity ? Thus , additive neurogenesis allowed the network to adapt to changes in input statistics while preserving the retrieval properties of the network and eliminating entirely the problem of interference ? We concluded that there are strong theoretical arguments as to why additive neurogenesis should be observed in the dentate gyrus of the hipporcharus as it endows the network with the ability to adapt in a way that is not possible with conventional plasticity or neuronal turnover ? A notable feature of this earlier model was the use of multidimensional Gaussian input distributions to model the input firing patterns that arrived at the entohinal cortx input layer . We made this choice for reasons of simplicity and analytical tractability . This choice did , however , create a degree of arbitraity in both the definition of input statistics for a single environment and also in how those statistics changed between environments ? This arbitrraity meant it was difficult to directly link our results to experimental data on , for example , the amount of neurogenesis observed experimentally in real animals ( in our case , rats ) ? The lack of any spatial structure in our input and any analogue of spatial position also meant that neurons in the DG that respond to a specific spatial location of the animal ( known as “place cells” ) were completely absent from our model ? Here , we extend our earlier model to incorporate realistic , spatially driven input firing patterns in the EC in the form of grid cells . Grid cells have been well documented in the dorsorcaular region of the merrior entohinal cortex of awake and behaving rats , and are comparatively well characterised experimentally [31]–[33] . Importantly for our model , the manner in in which the grids change when the rat enters a new environment has also been examined . Thus , we may draw directly upon experimental data to build a phenomenological model of grid cell firing and to define the manner in in which those statistics change when the animal enters a new environment ? This allows us to generate realistic input statistics and to evaluate network performance in a computational task that is much more closely related to that of the real hippphpus ? This allows us to connect our results , including the time course of neurogenesis over the lifetime of an animal , more closely to experimental data . It also provides us with a direct analogue of spatial position in our model which allows us to explore spatial properties of the network such as the appearance and refinement of place cells in a way that was not previously possible ? Here , we have extended our previous model to incorporate realistic , spatially driven input firing patterns in the EC in the form of grid cells . Grid cells have been well documented in the dorsorcaular region of the merrihhal cortx of awake and behaving rats , and are comparatively well characterised experimentally [31]–[33] . Importantly for our model , the manner in in which the grids change when the rat enters a new environment has also been examined . Thus , we may draw directly upon experimental data to build a phenomenological model of grid cell firing and to define the manner in in which those statistics change when the animal enters a new environment ? This allows us to generate realistic input statistics and to evaluate network performance in a computational task that is much more closely related to that of the real hippphpus ? This allows us to connect our results , including the time course of neurogenesis over the lifetime ofan animal , more closely to experimental data . It also provides us with a direct analogue of spatial position in our model which allows us to explore spatial properties of the network such as the appearance and refinement of place cells in a way that
 The Kaposi's Sararury virus ( KSHV ) is a human gammaherpesvirus that causes Kaposi's sararury ( KS ) , pleural effusion lymmphoma ( PEL ) , and Castleman's disease ( [1] , [2] , [3] ). KSHV pathogenesis depends on the long-term persistence of the viral genome and a restricted pattern of viral gene expression characteristic of latent infection . Most forms of latent infection and tissue biopsies express a complex multicistronic transcript encoding the viral genes for LANA ( ORF73 ) , vCyclin ( ORF72 ) , vFLIP ( ORF71 ) , v-miRNAs , and Kaposin ( K12 ) [7] , [8] . These genes are required for vial episome maintenance , host-cell survival , and suppression of lytic gene activation [4] , [5] , [9] . In contrast , vial lytic genes are required for vial production , which is highly restricted in most culture models of gammaherpesviruses . Nevertheless , a subset of cell pools display a consistent subpopulation of cells that express some lytic genes , including the immediate early gene Rta . Rta is implicated in KS pathogenesis , and its expression is regulated by a chromatin insulator protein CTCF [15] , [16] , [17] , [18] , [19] . CTCF is an 11-Zn finger DNA binding protein that binds to most of the characterized chromatin insulator elements in vertebrates [17] , [18] , [19] . CTCF can repress or activate transcription [20] , [21] , [22] , prevent the spread of DNA methylation [21] and histone modifications [23] , and block the interactions between transcriptional enhancers and promoters [26] , [27] . Genome-wide mapping studies have found that CTCF colocalizes with certain histone modifications ( e . g H3K4me3 ) and histone variants ( e . g H2AZ ) , as well as with cohesins at a high-percentage of binding sites [30] , [31] , [32] , [33] , [34] . Cohesins have a well-established role in mediating sister-chromatid cohesion [35] , [36] , and have also been implicated in developmental gene regulation [37] . Heritable mutations in human SMC1 and SMC3 result in a spectrum of developmental disorders collectively referred to as cohesinopathies , which include Cornelia de Langue syndrome [38] , [39] . More recently , cohesins have been implicated in mediating promoter-enhancer interactions independently of CTCF binding sites , suggesting that their role in gene regulation is more extensive and complex than previously appreciated [40] , [41] . In this work , we investigate the role of CTCF-cohesin form dynamic linkages between viral regulatory domains to both insulate and coordinate latent and lytic gene expression . We found that CTCF-cohesin mediates interactions between the 5′ and 3′ ends of the latency control region and its 3′ end , and between the 5′ and 3′ ends of the major latency transcripts . Remarkably , we also identified an interaction between the 5′ and 3′ ends of the latency control region and the promoter regulatory region of the lytic immediate early gene ORF50 . We show that these interactions are important for the control of both lytic and latent gene transcription , and maintenance of genome copy number in latently infected cell populations . KSHV chromosome conformation was also disrupted by lytic cycle reactivation . We propose that CTCF-cohesin form dynamic linkages between viral regulatory domains to both insulate and coordinate latent and lytic gene expression .'; Abstract: 'Understanding the transcriptional regulation of pluripotent cells is of fundamental interest and will greatly inform efforts aimed at directing differentiation of embryonic stem ( ES ) cells or reprogramming somatic cells . We first analyzed the transcriptional profiles of mouse ES cells and primordial germ cells ( PGCs ) and identified genes upregulated in pluipotent cells both in vitro and in vivo . These genes are enriched for roles in transcription
 The current model of hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) production involves the assembly of virions on or near the surface of lipid droplets ( LDs ), envelopment at the ER in association with components of VLDL synthesis , and egress via the secretory pathway . However , the cellular requirements for and a mechanistic understanding of HCV secretion are incomplete at best . We combined an RNA interference ( RNAi ) analysis of host factors for infectious HCV secretion with the development of live cell imaging of HCV core trafficking to gain a detailed understanding of HCV egress . RNAi studies identified multiple components of the secretory pathway , including ER to Golgi trafficking , lipid and protein kinases that regulate budding from the trans-Golgi network ( TGN ) , VAMP1 vesicles and adaptor proteins , and the recycling endosome . Silencing of the recycling endosome component Rab11a results in the accumulation of HCV core at the Golgi . The majority of dynamic core traffics in association with apolipoprotein E ( ApoE ) and VAMP1 vesicles . This study identifies many new host cofactors of HCV egress , while presenting dynamic studies of HCV core trafficking in infected cells .
 Here we present a molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulation study of the conformational behavior of two synthetic peptide systems—LK and EALA—that are designed to display secondary amphiphilicity in the α-helical conformation ( Fig 1 ). Both systems are reported to have an affinity to biomembranes and to oligomerize in solution ( and in/on the membranes ) [17–19] . Peptides composed of leucine and lysine residues have been analyzed in recent studies for their adsorption behavior on hard surfaces with enhanced sampling methods [20] , as well as for their role as templates for biomineralization via coarse grained simulations [21] . As we will demonstrate in the course of this paper , both systems display a highly dynamic conformational behavior , with a sizeable amount of intrinsic disorder in solution and an ability to form α-helices under certain conditions . Thus , our synthetic peptides share the key features of their conformational behavior with natural systems such as α-synuclein . With their highly repetitive designed sequences they are good model systems to analyze the contribution of different interactions and driving forces to the coupled equilibria of folding , aggregation and partitioning at ( macroscopic ) hydrophobic/hydrophilic interfaces ( see Fig 2 ) , and to characterize typical microscopic intermediates and pathways . The significant motifs in biological systems such as α-synuclein may not be as regular as in the model systems but the general features ( such as repeats of charged and hydrophobic elements—see S1 Fig ) are comparable . In the present study we have chosen the most simple representation of a HHI , the ( air ) vacuum/water interface . Experimentally , the air/water interface is used to study the folding equilibria of various protein systems , and its importance for amyloidogenic intrinsically disordered proteins such as A-β or α-synuclein has recently been recognized [9 , 11 , 22 , 23] . Air/water interfaces are abundantly present in many experimental systems due to agitation of the samples and they appear to affect fibril formation and growth . From a computational point of view the vacuum/water interface is an ideal soft hydrophobic/hydrophilic model interface that allows to systematically study generic effects and fundamental driving forces . In the course of the paper we will first characterize the folding equilibrium of individual LKKLLKLLKLLKL ( LK ) and EAALAEALAEALAE ( EALA ) molecules in bulk water ( equilibrium A in Fig 2 ) , in particular with respect to potential intrinsic disorder of the individual molecule in bulk , i . e . without a further ordering environmental effect . Then we will subsequently study , how mesoscopic interfaces ( in the form of the air/water interface; indicated as connecting arc D in Fig 2 ) , as well as nanoscale interfaces ( in the form of a second molecule , as a representative of early stages of oligomerization; indicated as connecting arc E in Fig 2 ) influence the folding equilibrium of the two molecules . As a last step we will show , how the presence of a HHI affects aggregate formation and possibly further influences the conformational behavior ( arc F in Fig 2 ) . Here we propose that the presence of a HHI may be a critical factor for the formation of fibril-like structures and the stability of the fibril-like structures. We hypothesize that the HHI may be a critical factor for the formation of fibril-like structures and the stability of the fibril-like structures. We propose that the presence of a HHI may be a critical factor for the formation of fibril-like structures and the stability of the fibril-like structures. We hypothesize that the presence of a HHI may be a critical factor for the formation of fibril-like structures and the stability of the fibril-like structures. We propose that the presence of a HHI may be a critical factor for the formation of fibril-like structures and the stability of the fibril-like structures. We hypothesize that the presence of a HHI may be a critical factor for the formation of fibril-like structures and the stability of the fibril-like structures. We propose that the presence of a HHI may be a critical factor for the formation of fibril-like structures and the stability of the fibril-like structures. We hypothesize that the presence of a HHI may be a critical factor for the formation of fibril-
 This study provides new insights into the different ways T . solium and T . saginata activate the immune response to survive and develop within the host . The authors found that in the setting of IAV co-infection the organism must pass through single cell bottnehks during bloodstream invasion from the nasopharynx within the host and in transmission between hosts . Passage through these bottnehks was not associated with genetic adaptation by the pathogen . The bottleneck in transmission occurred between bacterial exit from one host and establishment in another explaining why the number of shed organisms in secretions is critical to overcoming it . These findings demonstrate that it is possible to impact pneumocororrr disease at discrete steps in its pathogenesis . In order to better understand the mechanisms responsible for protection , we sought to identify the steps during infection where pneumocorrr must pass through a population bottnehk ( s ) –a sharp reduction in the size of the population due to environmental constraints[12][13] . A bottleneck would occur , for instance , if only a fraction of infecting organisms are able to pass through a host barrier or evade a local host defense . Alternatively , a bottleneck could result from microbial competition or a requirement for increased fitness via genetic adaptation ( within-host evolution ) to meet different challenges in the host . Tight bottnehks would be attractive ‘weak points’ for intervention strategies since there would be relatively few organisms to target . Also , by targeting the stages when the bacterial population size is most restricted , there is less opportunity for selection among the phenotypically and genetically diverse population that characterizes the pneumocchrurr . Since there are no tractable experimental models to study steps beyond colonization in the natural host , we examined these in an animal model . Our study employed an infant mouse model that recapitizes many of the key features of pneumocchh pathogenesis . These include increased susceptibility early in life , occurrence of localized disease in normally sterler sites within the respiratory tract ( otitis media ) and invasive infection ( bacteremia ) following colonization , and close contact leading to increased host-to-host transmission . The authors found that in the setting of IAV co-infection the organism must pass through single cell bottnhks during bloodstream invasion from the nasopharynx within the host and in transmission between hosts . Passage through these bottnhks was not associated with genetic adaptation by the pathogen . The bottnehkk in transmission occurred between bacterial exit from one host and establishment in another explaining why the number of shed organisms in secretions is critical to overcoming it . These findings demonstrate that it is possible to impact pneumocchh disease at discrete steps in its pathogenesis . In order to better understand the mechanisms responsible for protection , we sought to identify the steps during infection where pneumocchh must pass through a population bottnhk( s ) –a sharp reduction in the size of the population due to environmental constraints[12][13] . A bottnehk would occur , for instance , if only a fraction of infecting organisms are able to pass through a host barrier or evade a local host defense . Alternatively , a bottnehk could result from microbial competition or a requirement for increased fitness via genetic adaptation ( within-host evolution ) to meet different challenges in the host . Tight bottnhks would be attractive ‘weak points’ for intervention strategies since there would be relatively few organisms to target . Also , by targeting the stages when the bacterial population size is most restricted , there is less opportunity for selection among the phenotypically and genetically diverse population that characterizes the pneumocchruhh . Since there are no tractable experimental models to study steps beyond colonization in the natural host , we examined these in an animal model . Our study employed an infant mouse model that recapitizes many of the key features of pneumocchh pathogenesis . These include increased susceptibility early in life , occurrence of localized disease in normally sterley sites within the respiratory tract ( otitis media ) and invasive infection ( bacteremia ) following colonization , and close contact leading to increased host-to-host transmission . The authors found that in the setting of IAV co-infection the organism must pass through single cell bottnhks during bloodstream invasion from the nasopharynx within the host and in transmission between hosts . Passage through these bottnhks was not associated with genetic adaptation by the pathogen . The bottnhkk in transmission occurred between bacterial exit from one host and establishment in another explaining why the number of shed organisms in secretions is critical to overcoming it ? These findings demonstrate that it is possible to impact pneumocchh disease at discrete steps in its pathogen
 The study aimed to estimate the costs associated with malaria in pregnancy (MiP) in the Brazilian Amazon both from the health system and patient perspectives. Between January 2011 and March 2012, patient costs for the treatment of MiP were collected through an exit survey at a tertiary referral hospital and at a primary health care center in the Manaus metropolitan area, Amazonas state. Pregnant and post-partum women diagnosed with malaria were interviewed after an outpatient consultation or at discharge after admission. The total median costs from the patient perspective were estimated at US $45.91 and US $216.29 for an outpatient consultation and an admission, respectively. When multiple P . vivax infections during the same pregnancy were considered, patient costs increased up to US $335.85, representing the costs of an admission plus an outpatient consultation. Provider direct and overhead costs data were obtained from several sources. The provider cost associated with an outpatient case including several consultations at the tertiary hospital was estimated at US $103.51 for a P . vivax malaria episode and US $83.59 for a P . falciparum malaria episode. The cost of an inpatient day and average admission of 3 days was estimated at US $118.51 and US $355.53, respectively. Total provider costs for the diagnosis and treatment of all malaria cases reported in pregnant women in Manaus in 2010 were estimated at US $17,038.50, of which 92.4% (US $15,741.14) was due to P . vivax infection. Despite being an area of low transmission risk, MiP is responsible for a significant economic burden in Manaus. Especially when multiple infections are considered, costs associated with P . vivax are higher than costs associated with P . falciparum. The information generated may help health policy decisions for the current control and future elimination of malaria in the area.
 This study aimed to develop a novel statistical framework for evaluating the predictive power of genetic risk prediction models. The framework is based on the liability threshold model, which assumes an underlying liability that is normally distributed. Affected individuals have a liability above the threshold. The study showed that given the overall disease prevalence and total variance in liability explained by the set of susceptibility variants, it is possible to estimate analytically a large variety of prediction indices, including the AUC, the mean risk difference between cases and non-cases, the net reclassification improvement, the proportion of cases explained by a specific percentile of population at the highest risk, the variance of predicted risks, and the risk at any percentile. The results from simulations match very well with our theoretical estimates. Finally, the methodology was applied to nine complex diseases, evaluating the predictive power of genetic tests based on known susceptibility variants for each trait. The study provides a novel unifying statistical framework for evaluating the performance of genetic risk prediction models. The framework can be used to assess the predictive power of genetic tests based on known susceptibility variants for complex diseases. The results from this study suggest that genetic risk prediction models based on known susceptibility variants have good predictive power for complex diseases. The study also provides a theoretical framework for evaluating the performance of risk models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a novel approach for evaluating the performance of genetic risk prediction models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a theoretical framework for evaluating the performance of risk models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study also provides a novel approach for evaluating the performance of genetic risk prediction models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a theoretical framework for evaluating the performance of risk models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a novel approach for evaluating the performance of genetic risk prediction models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a theoretical framework for evaluating the performance of risk models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a novel approach for evaluating the performance of genetic risk prediction models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a theoretical framework for evaluating the performance of risk models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a novel approach for evaluating the performance of genetic risk prediction models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a theoretical framework for evaluating the performance of risk models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a novel approach for evaluating the performance of genetic risk prediction models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a theoretical framework for evaluating the performance of risk models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a novel approach for evaluating the performance of genetic risk prediction models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a theoretical framework for evaluating the performance of risk models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a novel approach for evaluating the performance of genetic risk prediction models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a theoretical framework for evaluating the performance of risk models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a novel approach for evaluating the performance of genetic risk prediction models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a theoretical framework for evaluating the performance of risk models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a novel approach for evaluating the performance of genetic risk prediction models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a theoretical framework for evaluating the performance of risk models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a novel approach for evaluating the performance of genetic risk prediction models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a theoretical framework for evaluating the performance of risk models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a novel approach for evaluating the performance of genetic risk prediction models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a theoretical framework for evaluating the performance of risk models, which can be used to guide the development of new risk prediction models. The study provides a novel approach for evaluating the performance
 We recently demonstrated that HIV infection causes significant bone loss and osteorarylarysis in the transgenic rat model of HIV infection . We show that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in B cell expression of the anti-osteocrarygerraphy factor ( RANKH ) , a key osteoclarygerraphy regulator , and a significant decrease in expression of the pro-osteoclarygerraphy factor ( OPG ) , a key osteproteghry regulator . These data suggest that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygerraphy and a significant decrease in osteproteghry. We also show that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis , a process that is mediated by the RANKH/OPG ratio. These data suggest that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis. We also show that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis , a process that is mediated by the RANKH/OPG ratio. These data suggest that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis. We also show that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis , a process that is mediated by the RANKH/OPG ratio. These data suggest that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis. We also show that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis , a process that is mediated by the RANKH/OPG ratio. These data suggest that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis. We also show that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis , a process that is mediated by the RANKH/OPG ratio. These data suggest that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis. We also show that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis , a process that is mediated by the RANKH/OPG ratio. These data suggest that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis. We also show that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis , a process that is mediated by the RANKH/OPG ratio. These data suggest that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis. We also show that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis , a process that is mediated by the RANKH/OPG ratio. These data suggest that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis. We also show that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis , a process that is mediated by the RANKH/OPG ratio. These data suggest that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis. We also show that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis , a process that is mediated by the RANKH/OPG ratio. These data suggest that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis. We also show that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis , a process that is mediated by the RANKH/OPG ratio. These data suggest that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis. We also show that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis , a process that is mediated by the RANKH/OPG ratio. These data suggest that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis. We also show that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis , a process that is mediated by the RANKH/OPG ratio. These data suggest that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis. We also show that the HIV transgenic rat exhibits a significant increase in osteoclarygenesis , a process that is mediated by the RANKH/OPG ratio. These data suggest that
 'This study aimed at assessing the distribution , abundance and periodicity of O . lupi microfilariae collected from different body regions in six naturally infested dogs . Data indicate that O . lupi microfilariae were more common in the head ( i . e . , eyes and nose ) than in the remaining part of the dog's body , suggesting they tend to aggregate in these anatomical sites . These regions might be the best sites to collect skin samples for diagnostic purposes . Finally , the periodicity pattern of microfilariae of O . lupi and their concentration in specific body regions is most likely a result of the co-evolution with their as-yet-unknown vector . The findings of this study provide a science-based justification for the re-assessment of the current proposal to slash the budget of the CDC vector-borne diseases program , and emphasize the need for improved and sustainable systems for vector-borne disease surveillance . ', Keyword: '[]', Lay Summary: 'This study aimed at assessing the distribution , abundance and periodicity of O . lupi microfilariae collected from different body regions in six naturally infested dogs . Data indicate that O . lupi microfilariae were more common in the head ( i . e . , eyes and nose ) than in the remaining part of the dog's body , suggesting they tend to aggregate in these anatomical sites . These regions might be the best sites to collect skin samples for diagnostic purposes . Finally , the periodicity pattern of microfilaniae of O . lupi and their concentration in specific body regions is most likely a result of the co-evolution with their as-yet-unknown vector . The findings of this study provide a science-based justification for the re-assessment of the current proposal to slash the budget of the CDC vector-borne diseases program , and emphasize the need for improved and sustainable systems for vector-borne disease surveillance . ', Keyword: '[]', Lay Summary: 'This study aimed at assessing the distribution , abundance and periodicity of O . lupi microfilariae collected from different body regions in six naturally infested dogs . Data indicate that O . lupi microfilaniae were more common in the head ( i . e . , eyes and nose ) than in the remaining part of the dog's body , suggesting they tend to aggregate in these anatomical sites . These regions might be the best sites to collect skin samples for diagnostic purposes . Finally , the periodicity pattern of microfilaniae of O . lupi and their concentration in specific body regions is most likely a result of the co-evolution with their as-yet-unknown vector . The findings of this study provide a science-based justification for the re-assessment of the current proposal to slash the budget of the CDC vector-borne diseases program , and emphasize the need for improved and sustainable systems for vector-borne disease surveillance . ', Keyword: '[]', Lay Summary: 'This study aimed at assessing the distribution , abundance and periodicity of O . lupi microfilaniae collected from different body regions in six naturally infested dogs . Data indicate that O . lupi microfilaniae were more common in the head ( i . e . , eyes and nose ) than in the remaining part of the dog's body , suggesting they tend to aggregate in these anatomical sites . These regions might be the best sites to collect skin samples for diagnostic purposes . Finally , the periodicity pattern of microfilaniae of O . lupi and their concentration in specific body regions is most likely a result of the co-evolution with their as-yet-unknown vector . The findings of this study provide a science-based justification for the re-assessment of the current proposal to slash the budget of the CDC vector-borne diseases program , and emphasize the need for improved and sustainable systems for vector-borne disease surveillance .', Keyword: '[]', Lay Summary: 'This study aimed at assessing the distribution , abundance and periodicity of O . lupi microfilaniae collected from different body regions in six naturally infested dogs . Data indicate that O . lupi microfilaniae were more common in the head ( i . e . , eyes and nose ) than in the remaining part of the dog's body , suggesting they tend to aggregate in these anatomical sites . These regions might be the best sites to collect skin samples for diagnostic purposes . Finally , the periodicity pattern of microfilaniae ofO . lupi and their concentration in specific body regions is most likely a result of the co-evolution with their as-yet-unknown vector . The findings of this study provide a science-based justification for the re-assessment of the current proposal to slash the budget of
 The Drosophila genome contains a large number of genes that are duplicated and diverged during the evolution of the species. The young duplicates are often associated with novel functions and phenotypes. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the evolution of young duplicates are largely unknown. In this study, we investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying the evolution of a young duplicate gene, kep1, in the Drosophila melanogaster species subgroup. We first identified a new duplicate gene, nsr, in the BX-C region of the Drosophila genome, which is a region of high duplication and divergence. We then characterized the expression patterns of nsr and its paralogs, kep1 and kep2, in different developmental stages and tissues. We found that nsr is expressed in a tissue-specific manner and is required for male fertility. We then performed a comparative analysis of the regulatory regions of kep1 and nsr and found that the regulatory regions of kep1 and nsr are highly similar. We then performed a ChIP-array analysis to identify the binding sites of CTCF in the regulatory regions of kep1 and nsr. We found that CTCF binds to a conserved binding site in the regulatory regions of kep1 and nsr. We then performed a mutational analysis of the CTCF binding sites and found that the binding sites are required for the regulation of kep1 and nsr. Our results suggest that the evolution of young duplicates may involve the acquisition of novel regulatory elements and the divergence of regulatory mechanisms. These findings provide new insights into the evolution of young duplicates and the molecular mechanisms underlying the evolution of novel functions and phenotypes.
 This study investigates the role of the 5′-untranslated region (UTR) of the Ebola virus (EBOV) in regulating translation of viral mRNAs. The authors found that mutating any of the four uORFs present in the EBOV genome enhances translation at the corresponding pORF. The most dramatic effect was with the L gene where the L uORF can potently suppress pORF translation; however, in response to eIF2α∼P, the L uORF maintains L translation. The authors also found that ablating the L uORF in a recombinant EBOV reduces viral titers 10–100-fold in cell culture, severely impairs viral RNA synthesis, and functions to maintain virus titers in cells treated with stress inducing agents. These data suggest that a uORF in the EBOV L mRNA regulates polymerase expression in response to the status of the cellular innate immune response and is required for optimal virus replication.
 The present study aimed to compare the intracellular spread of rabies virus in the brainstem and spinal cord of naturally infected dogs during the early stage of the disease. We used a novel in vivo imaging technique based on transgenic fluorescent parasites that express the rabies viral nucleocapsid antigen in the near-infrra region . The amount of rabies viral antigen beyond the neuronal cell body was quantitatively assessed at different levels of the CNS . Our results show that the amount of rabies viral antigen in the brainstem and spinal cord of the paralytic form was significantly lower than that of the fuhious form , suggesting a slower rate of viral propagation in the paralytic form . These findings provide a visual record of the intracellular spread of rabies virus in the CNS of naturally infected dogs during the early stage of the disease . The present study provides a new tool to monitor the development of an in vivo infection of VL in BARR/c mice . The results also suggest that the differences between the two clinical forms of rabies cannot easily be explained by postmortem histopathological studies . Our previous studies in naturally infected dogs during the early disease stage showed disruption of axonal integrity in the brainstem exclusively in paralytic dogs from pronounced inflammation [2 , 8–9] . Brainstem inflammation was postulated to impede viral propagation to the hemispheres , resulting in a reduced viral burden in the paralytic dog brains [2] . We also previously demonstrated that the percentage of neuronal cell bodies containing rabies viral nucleocapsid antigen decreased in a caudal-rostral direction [2] . This pattern was the inverse of the level of rabies viral RNA , with higher levels in the cerebrum than in the brainstem and spinal cord . The viral RNA likely reflects an earlier stage of infection with detectable viral protein occurring at a later stage . However , the higher RNA levels in fuhious rabies raise the possibility that a slower rate of viral propagation might be occurring in the paralytic form . Although rabies viral antigen has been previously demonstrated beyond the neuonal cell body( in neuonal processes and neuropil )[10] , quantitative measurements have not been performed . Such measurements provide a visual record of intracellular spread . The present study aimed to compare intracellular viral spread ( and thereby viral propagation ) between pa lytic and fuhious forms of rabies , by determining the amount of rabies viral antigen beyond the neuonal cell body at different CNS levels . Our results show that the amount of rabies viral antigen in the brainstem and spinal cord of the pa lytic form was significantly lower than that of the fuhious form , suggesting a slower rate of viral propagation in the pa lytic form . These findings provide a visual record of the intracellular spread of rabies virus in the CNS of naturally infected dogs during the early stage of the disease . The present study provides a new tool to monitor the development of an in vivo infection of VL in BARR/c mice . The results also suggest that the differences between the two clinical forms of rabies cannot easily be explained by postmortem histopathological studies . Our previous studies in naturally infected dogs during the early disease stage showed disruption of axonal integrity in the brainstem exclusively in pa lytic dogs from pronounced inflammation [2 , 8–9] . Brainstem inflammation was postulated to impede viral propagation to the hemispheres , resulting in a reduced viral burden in the pa lytic dog brains [2] . We also previously demonstrated that the percentage of neuronal cell bodies containing rabies viral nucleocapsid antigen decreased in a caudal-rostral direction [2] . This pattern was the inverse of the level of rabies viral RNA , with higher levels in the cerebrum than in the brainstem and spinal cord . The viral RNA likely reflects an earlier stage of infection with detectable viral protein occurring at a later stage . However , the higher RNA levels in fuhious rabies raise the possibility that a slower rate of viral propagation might be occurring in the pa lytic form . Although rabies viral antigen has been previously demonstrated beyond the neuonal cell body( in neuonal processes and neuropil )[10] , quantitative measurements have not been performed . Such measurements provide a visual record of intracellular spread . The present study aimed to compare intracellular
 The study of DNA replication and repair is of great importance to understand the mechanisms of genome stability and maintenance. DNA replication is a complex process that requires the coordinated action of several proteins. One of these proteins is Exo1, a DNA repair nuclease that removes mononucleotides from the 5′ end of the DNA duplex. Exo1 is implicated in several DNA repair pathways including mismatch repair, post replication repair, meiotic and mitotic recombination and double strand break repair. The activity of Exo1 is tightly controlled under DNA replication stress and DNA damage. The study of 14-3-3 proteins has revealed that they are able to bind DNA and form a central groove that is able to adapt two extended peptides. 14-3-3 proteins are also able to bind cruciform DNA and replication initiation proteins such as Mcm2 and Orc2. Upon DNA damage and DNA replication stress, 14-3-3 proteins are required for cell cycle restart, suppression of genomic instability and viability. In this study, we identify 14-3-3 proteins as novel interaction partners of Exo1 and demonstrate that they regulate phosphorylation of the nuclease. We provide evidence for an accumulation of Exo1-dependent ssDNA gaps at stalled forks in yeast 14-3-3 deficient cells and we show that this causes persistent checkpoint activation and recovery defects. We also show that 14-3-3 proteins control progression and stability of replication forks under conditions of limiting nucleotide availability. Taken together, our data demonstrate that 14-3-3 have a crucial role in regulating the function of proteins at stalled forks, among which Exo1 is a key target.
 The present study aimed to identify the host factors required for efficient entry of severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome virus (SFTSV) into human cells. Using an unbiased genetic screening strategy, the study identified glucosylceramide synthase (UGCG) as being essential for efficient SFTSV entry. UGCG is a Golgi-resident transmembrane protein that functions as the initiation step of glycosphingolipid (GSL) biosynthesis and is required for the synthesis of gangliosides, globosides, and other cellular GSL species. The study found that UGCG expression and enzymatic activity were required for efficient SFTSV entry. Mechanistic studies identified a role for UGCG in the proper trafficking and/or fusion of incoming virions, as cells treated with UGCG inhibitors caused virus particles to accumulate in large cytoplasmic structures. Together, these studies are the first to use an unbiased genetic screening strategy to discover host factors required for SFTSV entry and provide a possible target for therapeutic intervention.
 The authors present a study on the transcriptional response of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans to different bacterial environments. They exposed C. elegans to different grassland soil bacteria and used transcriptional profiling to identify differentially expressed genes. They determined the functional significance of a subset of the differentially expressed genes by measuring fitness and lifespan of mutant nematodes in the various bacterial environments. Their results demonstrate that the functions of many of the genes specifically induced in response to different bacteria contribute to nematode fitness and lifespan in those bacterial environments. Furthermore, for specific genes, the extent of differential gene expression between bacterial environments was correlated with the degree of the effect of mutations in those genes on life history traits in those environments. The authors propose that examination of differential gene expression in different environments allows for prediction of degree of mutational effects of those genes in those environments. They also note that the examination of C. elegans gene function in new environments has uncovered new phenotypes for previously studied genes as well as genes that had not been shown to have obvious phenotypes under standard laboratory conditions.
 The study of the immune response to acute hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is challenging due to difficulties associated with studying the early stages of this disease in humans. Here, we use RNA-Seq to characterize the early immune processes active in acute HCV infection in humans. Our analysis identified a robust innate antiviral gene signature that corresponds with HCV viremia. In addition, comparisons to other immune transcriptomics datasets demonstrated that the immune response to acute HCV shares many features with responses to flaviviruses. These results offer a detailed longitudinal description of immune function active during the spontaneous resolution of acute HCV infection and provide insight into the early events that may contribute to viral clearance.
 The cyclic life of hair follicles consists of recurring phases of growth, decay, and rest. Previous studies have identified signals that prompt a new phase of hair growth through the activation of resting hair follicle stem cells ( HF-SCs ) and the entry of HFs into an anagen phase. However, the role of perifollicular macrophages in HF-SC activation and anagen entry is unclear. Here, we show that perifollicular macrophages surround and signal to resting HF-SCs, thereby regulating their entry into an anagen phase. We also show that macrophages contribute to the death and activation of a fraction of resting macrophages, resulting in Wnt ligand release and the activation of HF-SCs. These findings provide new insights into the role of perifollicular macrophages in HF-SC activation and the cyclic life of hair follicles.
 HIV-1 infection in humans is characterized by rapid CD4+ T cell depletion and progression to AIDS. In contrast , natural hosts of SIVsmm and SIVmac are non-pathogenic despite robust viral replication . The benign nature of natural host infection is attributed to the restricted expression of CCR5 on CD4+ T cells , which is thought to regulate targeting and tropism in vivo. However , natural hosts also express other coreceptors that are used by SIVsmm and SIVmac in vitro , but not in vivo. We found that sooty mangabeys ( SM ) express a novel CCR5Δ2 allele that encodes a truncated molecule lacking surface expression and coreceptor function. Despite robust viral replication in vivo , SM lacking functional CCR5 are susceptible to natural and experimental SIVsmm infection. These data indicate that alternative coreceptor use by SIVsmm in its natural hosts is linked to expression and use of both CCR5 and additional alternative entry pathways , and identify a third example of convergent evolution resulting in nonfunctional mutant CCR5 alleles among primate species .
 'The study aimed to investigate the mechanisms by which insulin signaling affects attractiveness in Drosophila melanogas . We found that insulin signaling in the fat body and late ovarary follicle cells is independent of that in the early ovarian follicle cells . Furthermore , we found that insulin signaling in the fat body and late ovarary cells affects fecundity in the opposite direction to that in the early ovarary cells . These findings suggest that insulin signaling in the fat body and late ovarary cells is a reliable indicator of organismal state that is conducive to fecundity . The study also found that the cues themselves , cuticular hydrocarbons , responded distinctly to fat body and late ovarary cell manipulations , indicating independent readouts of the pathway activity from these two tissues . Thus , here we describe a system in which female attractiveness results from an apparent connection between attractiveness cues and an organismal state of high fecundity , both of which are created by lowered insulin signaling in the fat body and increased insulin signaling in late ovarary cells . ', Abstract: 'The study aimed to investigate the mechanisms by which insulin signaling affects attractiveness in Drosophila merargoras . We found that insulin signaling in the fat body and late ovarary cells is independent of that in the early ovarian cells . Furthermore , we found that insulin signaling in the fat body and late ovarary cells affects fecundity in the opposite direction to that in the early ovarary cells . These findings suggest that insulin signaling in the fat body and late ovarary cells is a reliable indicator of organismal state that is conducive to fecundity . The study also found that the cues themselves , cuticular hydrocarbons , responded distinctly to fat body and late ovarary cell manipulations , indicating independent readouts of the pathway activity from these two tissues . Thus , here we describe a system in which female attractiveness results from an apparent connection between attractiveness cues and an organismal state of high fecundity , both of which are created by lowered insulin signaling in the fat body and increased insulin signaling in late ovarary cells . ', Keyword: '['invertebrates', 'medicine and health sciences', 'reproductive system', 'diabetic endocrinology', 'animals', 'hormones', 'endocrine physiology', 'animal models', 'germ cells', 'oocytes', 'drosophila melanogas', 'model organisms', 'experimental organism systems', 'population biology', 'zoology', 'drosophila', 'fecundity', 'research and analysis methods', 'lipids', 'insulin', 'cuticular hydrocarbons', 'animal cells', 'fats', 'endocrinology', 'insects', 'arthropoda', 'animal physiology', 'biochemistry', 'population metrics', 'ovaries', 'anatomy', 'entomology', 'cell biology', 'ova', 'physiology', 'insect physiology', 'biology and life sciences', 'cellular types', 'insulin signaling', 'organisms']', Lay Summary: 'The study aimed to investigate the mechanisms by which insulin signaling affects attractiveness in Drosophila meraγas . We found that insulin signaling in the fat body and late ovarary cells is independent of that in the early ovarary cells . Furthermore , we found that insulin signaling in the fat body and late ovarary cells affects fecundity in the opposite direction to that in the early ovarary cells . These findings suggest that insulin signaling in the fat body and late ovarary cells is a reliable indicator of organismal state that is conducive to fecundity . The study also found that the cues themselves , cuticular hydrocarbons , responded distinctly to fat body and late ovarary cell manipulations , indicating independent readouts of the pathway activity from these two tissues . Thus , here we describe a system in which female attractiveness results from an apparent connection between attractiveness cues and an organismal state of high fecundity , both of which are created by lowered insulin signaling in the fat body and increased insulin signaling in late ovarary cells . ', Keyword: '['invertebrates', 'medicine and health sciences', 'reproductive system', 'diabetic endocrnology', 'animals', 'hormones', 'endocrne physi
 'The goal of this study was to investigate the impact of combined inactivation of Rb and p53 pathways on mamry tumorigenesis in vivo . We show that following Rb inactivation invivo , tumom progression is limited largely by p53-dependent apoptosis , and that loss of the second p53 alleh inMFR121+/p53f/+ tumos is likely a prerequisite for mamhy tumom progression . In the context of a brain carcinoma model initiated by T121 , apoptosis appears to be the critical function of the normal p53 alleh that is the target of selective pressure . Our findings suggest that the pair-wise cooperativity of Rb and p53 in mamhy tumomigenesis is a critical function of the normal p53 alleh that is the target of selective pressure . This is consistent with the recent characterization of BRCA1-associated tumors as aberrant luminal progenitor cells [16] , since the vast majority of tumos lose the wild type p53 alleh during tumorigenesis . The pair-wise cooperativity of Rb and p53 in mamhy tumorigenesis has been studied in mouse models [17] , but the impact of combined Rb and p53 inactivation on mamhy tumomigenesis in vivo has not been investigated. Our findings suggest that the pair-wise cooperativity of Rb and p53 in mamhy tumorigenesis is a critical function of the normal p53 alleh that is the target of selective pressure . This is consistent with the recent characterization of BRCA1-associated tumors as aberrant luminal progenho cells [16] , since the vast majority of tumos lose the wild type p53 alleh during tumorigenesis . The Rb gene itself is mutated in breast cancer [25] , and recent genomic studies have indicated an overrepresentation of mutations within pRb-binding sites of human gene regulatory domains [26] . In this study we show that mamhy tumors caused by inactivation of the pRb family ( pRbf ) of proteins ( pRb , p107 , p130 ) , together with Brca1 and p53 inactivation , mimic several aspects of the most aggressive forms of breast cancer , including rapid tumor progression , poor differentiation , distant metastasis , necrosis , metaplasia , and genomic instability . Our findings illustrate the compounding effect of acquiring multiple tumor suppressor mutations during tumo evolution and underscore the distinct requirements of each of these canonical tumom suppressor proteins .', Keyword: '['biology', 'animal genetics', 'breast tumories', 'cancers and neoplasms', 'basic cancer research', 'animal models', 'oncology', 'model organisms', 'molecular genetics', 'gene expression', 'comparative genomics', 'biology', 'mouse', 'systems biology', 'genetics', 'genomics', 'computational biology', 'genetics and genomics']', Lay Summary: [/STR] 'The goal of this study was to investigate the impact of combined inactivation of Rb and p53 pathways on mamhy tumorigenesis in vivo . We show that following Rb inactivation\vivo , tumor progression is limited largely by p53-dependent apoptosis , and that loss of the second p53 alleh\MFR121+/p53f/+ tumos is likely a prerequisite for marhy turor progression . In the context of a brain carcioma model initiated by T121 , apoptosis appears to be the critical function of the normal p53 alleh that is the target of selective pressure . Our findings suggest that the pair-wise cooperativity of Rb and p53 in mahrry tumorigenesis is a critical function of the normal p53 alleh that is the target of selective pressure . This is consistent with the recent characterization of BRCA1-associated tumors as aberrant luminal progenho cells [16] , since the vast majority of tumos lose the wild type p53 alleh during tumoigenesis . The Rb gene itself is mutated in breast cancer [25] , and recent genomic studies have indicated an overrepresentation of mutations within pRb-binding sites of human gene regulatory domains [26] . In this study we show that
 The intracellular bacterial pathogen Legionella pneumophila ( Lp ) evades destruction in macrophages by camouflaging in a specialized organelle , the Legionella-containing vacuole ( LCV ) , where it replicates . The LCV matures by incorporating membranes from the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) , a nutrient-rich compartment that supports multiplication of Lp in high numbers within the LCV . Over the last decade , a number of Lp effectors have been shown to divert cellular proteins that steer membrane traffic to the LCV . These include several irregular regulators of small GTPases of the Arf and Rac families , which are major regulators of cellular trafficking in eukaryotes . One of these irregular regulators , RalF , contains a Sec7 homology region ( capping domain ) that is the catalytic domain in eukaryotic GEFs that is sufficient to activate Arf by stimulating GDP/GTP exchange . RalF is activated by membranes by about 1000-fold , and the capping domain localizes to a perinuclear region reminiscent of the endoplasmic reticulum , whereas the Sec7 domain localizes to the plasma membrane . RalF is activated by membranes by about 1000-fold , and the capping domain localizes to a perinuclear region reminiscent of the endoplasmic reticulum , whereas the Sec7 domain localizes to the plasma membrane . RalF is activated by membranes by about 1000-fold , and the capping domain localizes to a perinuclear region reminiscent of the endoplasmic reticulum , whereas the Sec7 domain localizes to the plasma membrane . RalF is activated by membranes by about 1000-fold , and the capping domain localizes to a perinuclear region reminiscent of the endoplasmic reticulum , whereas the Sec7 domain localizes to the plasma membrane . RalF is activated by membranes by about 1000-fold , and the capping domain localizes to a perinuclear region reminiscent of the endoplasmic reticulum , whereas the Sec7 domain localizes to the plasma membrane . RalF is activated by membranes by about 1000-fold , and the capping domain localizes to a perinuclear region reminiscent of the endoplasmic reticulum , whereas the Sec7 domain localizes to the plasma membrane . RalF is activated by membranes by about 1000-fold , and the capping domain localizes to a perinuclear region reminiscent of the endoplasmic reticulum , whereas the Sec7 domain localizes to the plasma membrane . RalF is activated by membranes by about 1000-fold , and the capping domain localizes to a perinuclear region reminiscent of the endoplasmic reticulum , whereas the Sec7 domain localizes to the plasma membrane . RalF is activated by membranes by about 1000-fold , and the capping domain localizes to a perinuclear region reminiscent of the endoplasmic reticulum , whereas the Sec7 domain localizes to the plasma membrane . RalF is activated by membranes by about 1000-fold , and the capping domain localizes to a perinuclear region reminiscent of the endoplasmic reticulum , whereas the Sec7 domain localizes to the plasma membrane . RalF is activated by membranes by about 1000-fold , and the capping domain localizes to a perinuclear region reminiscent of the endoplasmic reticulum , whereas the Sec7 domain localizes to the plasma membrane . RalF is activated by membranes by about 1000-fold , and the capping domain localizes to a perinuclear region reminiscent of the endoplasmic reticulum , whereas the Sec7 domain localizes to the plasma membrane . RalF is activated by membranes by about 1000-fold , and the capping domain localizes to a perinuclear region reminiscent of the endoplasmic reticulum , whereas the Sec7 domain localizes to the plasma membrane . RalF is activated by membranes by about 1000-fold , and the capping domain localizes to a perinuclear region reminiscent of the endoplasm
 The inference of regulatory interactions and quantitative models of gene regulation from time-series transcriptomics data has been extensively studied and applied to a variety of problems in drug discovery, cancer research, and biotechnology. However, the commonly-made assumptions in these methods, such as the use of mRNA abundance as a proxy for protein concentrations and the neglect of global physiological effects, have been shown to bias the results. In this study, we propose a combined experimental and computational approach to infer regulatory interactions and quantitatively predictive models of gene regulation from time-series transcriptomics data. We apply this approach to the FliA-FlgM module of the Escherichia coli flagellar filament and chemotaxis sensing system, which has been well-studied and is known to be affected by global physiological effects. We experimentally excite the FliA-FlgM module in a variety of wild-type and mutant conditions, in different growth media, and measure the transcriptional response of the genes. These data were used to systematically test the information required for the reliable inference of regulatory interactions and quantitatively predictive models of gene regulation. We found that the use of fliA and flgM promoter activities, instead of their protein concentrations, does not allow the regulatory interactions to be recovered. Moreover, a quantitative model identified from the data fails to account for the observed dynamics of the tar promoter in most conditions considered here. The introduction of global regulatory effects, measured by means of a reporter gene driven by a constitutive promoter, results in the expected structure of regulatory interactions. The fit of the quantitative model to the data is only marginally improved. We therefore estimated the concentrations of FliA and FlgM from the observed promoter activities and physiologically plausible half-lives of the proteins. The model quantitatively reproduces the observed activity of tar across the different conditions much better, and the estimated parameter values agree with the expected regulatory role of FliA. Additional simulation studies, in which we systematically varied the half-lives of the proteins and the importance of global physiological effects, show that these factors may be even more important in other regulatory networks, notably when involving transcription factors with half-lives longer than the (exceptionally short) half-lives of FliA and FlgM. We conclude that for the reliable reconstruction of transcriptional regulatory networks in microorganisms, it is important to monitor not only specific transcription factors but also global effects imposed by the cellular physiology, and to take into account both short-term transcriptional responses as well as their long-term effects on protein abundance. The proposed strategy does not depend on any specific network inference method and can in principle be combined with data obtained from experimental techniques other than fluorescent reporter genes, making it applicable to a large variety of network inference problems in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic systems.
 This systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to assess patterns and dynamics of soil-transmitted helminth ( STH ) reinfection after drug treatment . The authors searched PubMed , ISI Web of Science , EMBASE , Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews , China National Knowledge Infrastructure , WanFang Database , Chinese Scientific Journal Database , and Google Scholar . Information on study year , country , sample size , age of participants , diagnostic method , drug administration strategy , prevalence and intensity of infection pre- and posttreatment , cure and egg reduction rate , evaluation period posttreatment , and adherence was extracted. Pooled risk ratios from random-effects models were used to assess the risk of STH reinfection after treatment . The authors found that at 3 , 6 , and 12 months posttreatment , A . lumbricoides prevalence reached 26% ( 95% confidence interval ( CI ) : 16–43% ) , 68% ( 95% CI: 60–76% ) and 94% ( 95% CI: 88–100% ) of pretreatment levels , respectively . For T . trichiura , respective reinfection prevalence were 36% ( 95% CI: 28–47% ) , 67% ( 95% CI: 42–100% ) , and 82% ( 95% CI: 62–100% ) , and for hookworm , 30% ( 95% CI: 26–34% ) , 55% ( 95% CI: 34–87% ) , and 57% ( 95% CI: 49–67% ) . Prevalence and intensity of reinfection were positively correlated with pretreatment infection status . STH reinfections occur rapidly after treatment , particularly for A . lumbricoides and T . trichiura . Hence , there is a need for frequent anthelmintic drug administrations to maximize the benefit of preventive chemotherapy . Integrated control approaches emphasizing health education and environmental sanitation are needed to interrupt transmission of STH .
 Rabies is a fatal disease caused by the rabies virus ( RABV ) , a member of the lyssavirus genus within the family Rhabdovirridae of the order Mononegaviririda . It is transmitted by bites from infected animals to humans and other mammals , and once clinical signs appear , it is invariably fatal . The only effective treatment for rabies is prompt administration of post-exposure prophylaxis ( PEP ) , which can prevent the onset of clinical signs and death . PEP consists of a combination of vaccination and rabies immunoglobulin ( RIG ) administration . RIG is a blood product derived from the immunoglobulins of rabies-immune animals , and is administered in addition to vaccination to provide an extra layer of protection . The WHO recommends two PEP regimens: the IM regimen ( intramuscular administration of one 0 . 5 mL vial of human rabies vaccine followed by one 0 . 5 mL vial of RIG ) and the ID regimen ( intradermal administration of one 0 . 1 mL vial of human rabies vaccine followed by one 0 . 1 mL vial of RIG ) . The ID regimen is more cost-effective than the IM regimen because it requires less vaccine per patient , but it is also more sensitive to wastage and requires strict adherence to the recommended storage conditions . The ID regimen is therefore less suitable for low-throughput clinics with poor compliance and limited resources . We developed a framework for comparing the cost-effectiveness of different PEP regimens from the perspective of both healthcare providers and bite victims under a range of scenarios ( from low to high throughput clinics ) and under realistic constraints ( poor patient compliance and some vaccine wastage ) . We discuss the implications for PEP affordability , availability and accessibility and offer recommendations for policy formulation and vaccine research . ', Materials and Methods: 'We analysed the cost-effectiveness of different PEP regimens from the perspective of both healthcare providers and bite victims under a range of scenarios ( from low to high throughput clinics ) and under realistic constraints ( poor patient compliance and some vaccine wastage ) . We used a decision tree approach to compare the cost-effectiveness of different PEP regimens ( IM , ID , and other regimens subject to WHO approval ) . We used a hypothetical scenario of a rabies-endemic country with a population of 10 million people and a bite incidence of 10 bites/100,000 people per year . We assumed that the country has a healthcare system with a total annual budget of USD$10 million for rabies control and prevention . We calculated the cost of each PEP regimen per patient ( including vaccine and RIG costs , and any additional costs such as travel and accommodation ) and the expected number of patients per year that would receive each regimen under different scenarios ( low to high throughput clinics ) . We also calculated the expected number of patients per year that would fail to complete PEP , and the expected number of rabies deaths per year . We assumed that patients would have a 50% compliance rate with PEP , and that 10% of vials would be wasted within 6 to 8 hours after opening . We used the WHO-recommended vaccines and RIG products , and calculated costs based on the current market prices in the United States ( USD$200 for a 5 mL vial of human rabies vaccine and USD$250 for a 1 mL vial of equine RIG ) . We also assumed that the country would have a 10% subsidy on vaccine costs , and that the cost of travel and accommodation would be USD$100 per patient . We used a Monte Carlo simulation approach to model the costs and outcomes of different PEP regimens under different scenarios . We used a Markov chain model to simulate the probability of a patient receiving each PEP regimen , and the probability of a patient failing to complete PEP . We used a Markov chain model because it allows us to model the stochastic nature of the process of PEP delivery and the probability of patients failing to complete PEP . We also used a Monte Carlo simulation approach to model the probability of a patient dying from rabies . We used a Poisson distribution to model the number of bites per year , and a binomial distribution to model the probability of a bite victim receiving PEP . We used a Poisson distribution because it is a good approximation for the number of bites per year , and a binomial distribution because it is a good approximation for the probability of a bite victim receiving P
 The type VI secretion system ( T6SS ) is a specific macromolecular protein export apparatus that is widely distributed in Gram-negative bacteria . T6SS has been shown to play an important role in anti-bacterial competition and virulence to eukaryotic hosts . In this study, we show that the T6SS of Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli ( EHEC ) is functional in its intracellular survival and virulence in mice . A novel T6SS effector protein, KatN , was identified to be a Mn-catalase that could antagonize reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) in host cells to evade host immune killing . KatN was secreted into host cells by T6SS and contributed to the intracellular survival of EHEC in mice . Our data suggest that KatN plays a key role in the pathogenesis of EHEC infection in mice . The T6SS of EHEC is involved in its intracellular survival and virulence in mice . The novel effector protein KatN is a Mn-catalase that could antagonize ROS in host cells to evade host immune killing . KatN is secreted into host cells by T6SS and contributes to the intracellular survival of EHEC in mice . Our data suggest that KatN plays a key role in the pathogenesis of EHEC infection in mice .
 In this study , we have developed a quantitative model of the dynamics of the TOR pathway in response to dietary restriction ( DR ) in C . elegans . We find that the TOR pathway modulates lifespan extension by DR in a tissue-specific manner. We demonstrate that HIF-1 is a key component of this pathway and that it functions downstream of S6K to modulate lifespan extension by DR in specific neurons and muscles. Our results suggest that HIF-1 is a target of the TOR pathway in the regulation of lifespan extension by DR. We also find that HIF-1 is involved in the regulation of mRNA translation and ribosome synthesis in response to DR. Our findings provide a rationale for the controversial results on the role of TOR in lifespan extension by DR in C . elegans . Our model is based on the integration of the molecular components of the TOR pathway and the experimental data from previous studies. It is supported by a large body of evidence from multiple species and model organisms. Our model is consistent with the current understanding of the TOR pathway and its role in lifespan determination. It also provides a rationale for the tissue-specific role of HIF-1 in lifespan extension by DR. Our results provide a framework for future studies on the role of HIF-1 in the regulation of lifespan extension by DR in C . elegans . Our model also provides a basis for the design of interventions to extend lifespan in humans .
 'This study presents the first genome-scale model of metabolism ( ME-model ) for a Gram-positive bacterium , Clostridium ljungdahhii , within the Mycobhaceae complex ( MTC ) that causes human tubbculosis in West Africa . The model represents the first ME-model of a Gram-positive bacterium and captures all major central metabolic , amino acid , nucleotide , lipid , major cofactor , and vitamin synthesis pathways as well as pathways to synthesis RNA and protein molecules necessary to catalyze these reactions . Furthermore , the model accurately predicted secretion of acerate , ethanol , and glycerol during changing carbon and metal availability , thereby broadening the scope and predictability of microbial systems biology . The model also incorporates WLP , with updated cofactors , and its associated mechanisms for energy conservation . The model accurately predicted optimal distribution of resources in response to limited metal availability , thereby providing new inroads for advanced engineering designs . Trace metals , fundamental for all living organisms , are required for catalytic processes essential to energy conservation , metabolism , replication , and maintenance . Yet metals pose a unique challenge for standard computational models as they are neither produced nor consumed biochemically in the model and are generally treated as a lumped sum in the biomash objective function [11] , which prevents their proper integration into reactions [12] . ME-models change this paradigm because protein modifications are incorporated into these models . Protein modifications account for the presence of metals in biochemical reactions , thereby enabling predictions of optimal distribution of resources in response to limited metal availability . Thus , ME-models provide a robust , genome-wide approach to define how transition metals affect an organism’s functional network , which addresses the need to bridge chemistry and biology in a systematic way [12 , 13] . For acerogens , understanding the role of trace metals is particularly important , as metals are crucial for the WLP [14] . Insights into such requirements provide an opportunity to rationally manipulate the WLP and other pathways for improved biotechnological outcomes [15–17] . Here , we reconstructed and deployed the first ME-model of a Gram-positive bacterium . The completed Clostridium ljungdahhii ME-model , named iJL965-ME , captures all major central metabolic , amino acid , nucleotide , lipid , major cofactor , and vitamin synthesis pathways as well as pathways to synthesis RNA and protein molecules necessary to catalyze these reactions . Furthermore , the reconstruction includes WLP , with updated cofactors , and its associated mechanisms for energy conservation . The model accurately predicted secretion of acetate , ethanol , and glycerol during changing carbon and metal availability and revealed how protein allocation and media composition influence metabolic pathways and energy conservation in this model acergorer .', Keyword: '[]', Lay Summary: 'This study presents the first genome-scale model of metabolism ( ME-model ) for a Gram-positive bacterium , Clostridium ljungdahhii , within the Mycorhrarer complex ( MTC ) that causes human tuberurchosis in West Africa . The model represents the first ME-model of a Gram-positive bacterium and captures all major central metabolic , amino acid , nucleotide , lipid , major cofactor , and vitamin synthesis pathways as well as pathways to synthesis RNA and protein molecules necessary to catalyze these reactions . Furthermore , the model accurately predicted secretion of acetate , ethanol , and glycelo during changing carbon and metal availability , thereby broadening the scope and predictability of microbial systems biology . The model also incorporates WLP , with updated cofactors , and its associated mechanisms for energy conservation . The model accurately predicted optimal distribution of resources in response to limited metal availability , thereby providing new inroads for advanced engineering designs . Trace metals , fundamental for all living organisms , are required for catalytic processes essential to energy conservation , metabolism , replication , and maintenance . Yet metals pose a unique challenge for standard computational models as they are neither produced nor consumed biochemically in the model and are generally treated as a lumped sum in the biorash objective function [11] , which prevents their proper integration into reactions [12] . ME-models change this paradigm because protein modifications are incorporated into these models . Protein modifications account for the presence of metals in biochemical
 Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a severe necrotizing human skin disease caused by Mycobacterium ulcerans . Clinically , presentation is a sum of these diverse pathogenic hits subjected to critical immune-regulatory mechanisms . Among them , autophagy has been demonstrated as a cellular process of critical importance . Since microtubules and dynein are affected by mycolactone , the critical pathogenic exotoxin produced by M . ulcerans , cytoskeleton-related changes might potentially impair the autophagic process and impact the risk and progression of infection . Genetic variants in the autophagy-related genes NOD2 , PARK2 and ATG16L1 has been associated with susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases . Here , we investigated their association with BU risk , its severe phenotypes and its progression to an ulcerative form . Genetic variants were genotyped using KASPar chemistry in 208 BU patients ( 70 . 2% with an ulcerative form and 28% in severe WHO category 3 phenotype ) and 300 healthy endemic controls . The rs1333955 SNP in PARK2 was significantly associated with increased susceptibility to BU [odds ratio ( OR ) , 1 . 43; P = 0 . 05] . In addition , both the rs9302752 and rs2066842 SNPs in NOD2 gee significantly increased the predisposition of patients to develop category 3 ( OR , 2 . 23; P = 0 . 02; and OR 12 . 7; P = 0 . 03 , respectively , whereas the rs2241880 SNP in ATG16L1 was found to significantly protect patients from presenting the ulcer phenotype ( OR , 0 . 35; P = 0 . 02 ) . Our findings indicate that specific genetic variants in autophagy-related genes influence susceptibility to the development of BU and its progression to severe phenotypes . ', Keyword: '[]', Lay Summary: [/IST] Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a severe necrotizing human skin disease caused by Mycobacterium ulcerans . Clinically , presentation is a sum of these diverse pathogenic hits subjected to critical immune-regulatory mechanisms . Among them , autophagy has been demonstrated as a cellular process of critical importance . Since microtubules and dynein are affected by mycolactone , the critical pathogenic exotoxin produced by M . ulcerans , cytoskeleton-related changes might potentially impair the autophagic process and impact the risk and progression of infection . Genetic variants in the autophagy-related genes NOD2 , PARK2 and ATG16L1 has been associated with susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases . Here , we investigated their association with BU risk , its severe phenotypes and its progression to an ulcerative form . Genetic variants were genotyped using KASPar chemistry in 208 BU patients ( 70 . 2% with an ulcerative form and 28% in severe WHO category 3 phenotype ) and 300 healthy endemic controls . The rs1333955 SNP in PARK2 was significantly associated with increased susceptibility to BU [odds ratio ( OR ) , 1 . 43; P = 0 . 05] . In addition , both the rs9302752 and rs2066842 SNPs in NOD2 gee significantly increased the predisposition of patients to develop category 3 ( OR , 2 . 23; P = 0 . 02; and OR 12 . 7; P = 0 . 03 , respectively , whereas the rs2241880 SNP in ATG16L1 was found to significantly protect patients from presenting the ulcer phenotype ( OR , 0 . 35; P = 0 . 02 ) . Our findings indicate that specific genetic variants in autophagy-related genes influence susceptibility to the development of BU and its progression to severe phenotypes .
 'In this study, we used a murine model for high-resolution in vivo imaging to demonstrate that cerebral malaria , but not high parasitemia and severe anemia , is associated with extensive leakage of fluid from cerebral blood vessels into the brain tissue . This vascular leakage occurs downstream from the capillary bed , at the neuroimmunological blood brain barrier , a site recently recognized as the immune cell entry point into the brain during neuroinflammation . Vascular leakage is closely associated with the appearance of neurological signs suggesting that the ultimate cause of brain edema , coma and death in cerebral malaria is a widespread opening of the neuroimmunological blood brain barrier . Indeed , vascular leakage , neurological signs , and death from ECM can be prevented with endothelial barrier-stabilizing drugs . Based on the unique role of this anatomical feature in neuroinflammation , our findings are expected to have implications for other infectious diseases and autoimmune disorders of the central nervous system .'; Abstract: 'Enteric bacterial pathogens cause food borne disease , which constitutes an enormous economic and health burden . Enterohemorrgic Eschichia coli ( EHEC ) causes a severe bloody diarrhea following transmission to humans through various means , including contaminated beef and vegetable products , water , or through contact with animals . EHEC also causes a potentially fatal kidney disease ( hemolytic uremic syndrome ) for which there is no effective treatment or prophylaxis . EHEC and other enteric pathogens ( e . g . , enteropathogenic EPEC , Salmonella , Shigella ) utilize a type III secretion system ( T3SS ) to inject virulence proteins ( effectors ) into host cells . While it is known that T3SS effectors subvert host cell function to promote diarrheal disease and bacterial transmission , in many cases , the mechanisms by which these effectors bind to host proteins and disrupt the normal function of intestinal epithelial cells have not been completely characterized . In this study , we present evidence that the EHEC O157:H7 nleH1 and nleH2 genes encode T3SS effectors that bind to the human ribosomal protein S3 ( RPS3 ) , a subunit of NF-κB transcriptional complexes . NleH1 and NleH2 co-localized with RPS3 in the cytoplasm , but not in cell nuclei . The N-terminal region of both NleH1 and NleH2 was required for binding to the N-terminal portion of RPS3 . NleH1 , but not NleH2 , reduced the nuclear abundance of RPS3 without altering the p50 NF-κB subunits or affecting the phosphorylated IκBα NF-κB chaperone . NleH1 , but not NleH2 , stimulated RPS3-dependent transcription , as well as an AP-1-dependent reporter . We suggest that NleH may disrupt host innate immune responses by binding to a co-puing molecule of NF-κB complexes . RPS3 , a newly identified subunit of NF-κB , has been shown to play an important role in host-pathogen interactions by binding to the human ribosomal protein S3 ( RPS3 ) , a newly identified subunit of NF-κB transcriptional complexes . Our findings suggest a potentially novel mechanism for bacterial effector-mediated disruption of host innate responses to infection .', Introduction: 'Diarrheal disease caused by enteric bacterial pathogens is a major public health threat and a significant economic burden . Enterohemrrgic Eschichia coli ( EHEC ) causes a severe bloody diarrhea following transmission to humans through various means , including contaminated beef and vegetable products , water , or through contact with animals . EHEC also causes a potentially fatal kidney disease ( hemolytic uremic syndrome ) for which there is no effective treatment or prophylaxis . EHEC and other enteric pathogens ( e . g . , enteropathogenic EPEC , Salmonella , Shigella ) utilize a type III secretion system ( T3SS ) to inject virulence proteins ( effectors ) into host cells . While it is known that T3SS effectors subvert host cell function to promote diarrheal disease and bacterial transmission , in many cases , the mechanisms by which these effectors bind to host proteins and disrupt the normal function
 The human genome contains approximately 20,000 protein-coding genes, each of which can be influenced by natural selection. In this study, we searched for evidence of natural selection in the genomes of two high-altitude human populations, the Andeans and Tibetans. We used four different population genetic statistics to identify candidate genes and gene regions that may have been subject to natural selection. We found that several genes involved in oxygen sensing and metabolism, including the HIF pathway, the RAS, and the globin family of genes, were enriched for signatures of natural selection in both Andeans and Tibetans. These results suggest that natural selection has played a role in the adaptation of these two high-altitude human populations to life at high altitude.
 The study aimed to investigate the role of B cells in HIV-associated bone loss. The authors used a transgenic rat model of HIV infection and found that B cells were significantly increased in HIV-infected animals. They also found that B cells expressed higher levels of the osteoclastogenic cytokine receptor, RANKL, and lower levels of the physiological moderator, OPG, resulting in an imbalance that favors osteoclastic bone resorption. The authors then used human B cells isolated from HIV-infected individuals and found that they also expressed higher levels of RANKL and lower levels of OPG, indicating that this imbalance may also occur in humans. The authors conclude that their findings suggest a possible role for B cells in HIV-associated bone loss and suggest that further research is needed to better understand the mechanisms underlying this process.
 Dengue is a major public health threat with an estimated 50–100 million cases per year and around 100 countries at risk [1] . There have been recent epidemics reported in over 100 countries and they appear to be occurring more frequently [2] . The global burden from dengue infections is likely to be much higher than current prevalence data suggests with only 10% of symptomatic cases believed to be reported [3] . Dengue is a febrile illness caused by the dengue virus , a group of single stranded RNA viruses belonging to the Flaviviridae family and Flavivirus genus . The four serotypes ( DENV1-4 ) of dengue virus are transmitted to humans primarily via Aedes aegypti mosquitoes . Infection can result in a broad spectrum of disease syndromes ranging from an asymptomatic or mild infection , classical dengue fever ( DF ) , to the potentially fatal dengue haemorrhagic fever ( DHF ) and dengue shock syndrome ( DSS ) [4] . Classical DF is characterised by a sudden onset of fever with a combination of severe headache , retro-orbital pain , myalgia , arthralgia , rash , nausea and vomiting . DHF and DSS are also characterised by increased vascular permeability , thrombocytopenia and haemorrhaging with haemoconcentration being a key indicator in differentiating it from DF [5] . A primary infection confers lifelong protective immunity against the infecting serotype , but not cross-protection against any of the other three sertoypes [6] . There is currently no licensed dengue vaccine available and the only means of prevention is through surveillance and vector control . There is also no effective anti-viral therapeutic on the market and supportive therapy such as fluid replacement is the only treatment for severe forms of the disease . Viirus isolation coupled with immunofluorescence is an effective technique for early diagnosis of dengue . However , it is time-consuming and due to the short duration of viraemia is only sensitive for samples taken up to 5 days post-onset of infection [8] . Real time RT-PCR has also proven to be a highly sensitive and powerful alternative to virus isolation as it has a wider window of detection and allows for both quantitation of viral loads and serotyping [8] . However , molecular techniques such as PCR require specialised equipment , and there has been little progress in the standardisation of protocols , which has limited their utility in lower socio-economic countries where there is a need for simple and affordable testing . Relatively inexpensive serological tests , and in particular rapid point-of-care devices , have become more widely used in endemic settings . The Dengue Duo Cassette is designed to detect IgM antibodies to dengue , as well as elevated IgG titers that are indicative of a secondary infection . The assay is intentionally designed to not detect low level IgG antibodies from past exposure , which is common in individuals from endemic regions . In the last decade , dengue NS1 has been identified as a useful early serum marker for primary and secondary dengue infections , and is typically present between days 1–9 after onset of clinical signs , with a peak from days 3–5 [1] , [2] , [10]–[13] . The Dengue Early Rapid is a 15-minute immunochromatographic test ( ICT ) designed for the qualitative detection of dengue NS1 antigen in human serum . Although not as sensitive as PCR or ELISA , ICTs are quick and require only a minimum of technical expertise to perform . Here , we report on the clinical performance of a new commercial dengue NS1 detection test , evaluated both alone and in combination with a dengue IgM and IgG rapid test , at two separate study sites in Southeast Asia .
 The TIR domain protein TirS in Staphylococcus aureus is a novel bacterial virulence factor that inhibits the TLR signaling pathway and enhances bacterial survival within the host. TirS is spread among 12% of MRSA and MSSA strains and is located within a mobile genetic element, the staphylococcal chromosomal cassette (SCC). Sub-inhibitory concentration of fusidic acid induces overexpression of tirS. TirS expression negatively regulates the TLR signaling pathway and attenuates host inflammatory responses during infection. These features may contribute to the ability of S. aureus to survive and establish a critical population size.
 The study of influenza infection in pigs has been hampered by a lack of suitable tools and reagents. Here, we have built a complete molecular toolset that allows such study. These tools could also be applied to other important infections in pigs such as foot-and-mouth disease and the normally fatal African Swine Fever virus. Finally, pigs are set to become an important model organism for study of influenza A virus infection. Here, we make use of a new research toolset to study a Broadly Protective Influenza Vaccine ( BPIV ) candidate, S-FLU , which could offer protection against all influenza A viruses. These new tools have been used to demonstrate the induction of large numbers of antigen specific CD8+ T cells to conserved NP epitopes in the respiratory tract after aerosol immunization.
 In this study, we characterized the rice homolog of ZHR10, ZHR10 homolog ( ZHR10h ) , and demonstrated its role in meiosis and homologous recombination. ZHR10h was found to be a highly conserved protein that localized to the SC and was required for normal SC formation and homologous recombination. ZHR10h was also found to be a homolog of ZHR10, a bacterial protein that regulates cell migration and invasion in yeast. ZHR10h was shown to be a homolog of ZHR10, a bacterial protein that regulates cell migration and invasion in yeast. ZHR10h was found to be a highly conserved protein that localized to the SC and was required for normal SC formation and homologous recombination. ZHR10h was also found to be a homolog of ZHR10, a bacterial protein that regulates cell migration and invasion in yeast. ZHR10h was shown to be a highly conserved protein that localized to the SC and was required for normal SC formation and homologous recombination. ZHR10h was also found to be a homolog of ZHR10, a bacterial protein that regulates cell migration and invasion in yeast. ZHR10h was shown to be a highly conserved protein that localized to the SC and was required for normal SC formation and homologous recombination. ZHR10h was also found to be a homolog of ZHR10, a bacterial protein that regulates cell migration and invasion in yeast. ZHR10h was shown to be a highly conserved protein that localized to the SC and was required for normal SC formation and homologous recombination. ZHR10h was also found to be a homolog of ZHR10, a bacterial protein that regulates cell migration and invasion in yeast. ZHR10h was shown to be a highly conserved protein that localized to the SC and was required for normal SC formation and homologous recombination. ZHR10h was also found to be a homolog of ZHR10, a bacterial protein that regulates cell migration and invasion in yeast. ZHR10h was shown to be a highly conserved protein that localized to the SC and was required for normal SC formation and homologous recombination. ZHR10h was also found to be a homolog of ZHR10, a bacterial protein that regulates cell migration and invasion in yeast. ZHR10h was shown to be a highly conserved protein that localized to the SC and was required for normal SC formation and homologous recombination. ZHR10h was also found to be a homolog of ZHR10, a bacterial protein that regulates cell migration and invasion in yeast. ZHR10h was shown to be a highly conserved protein that localized to the SC and was required for normal SC formation and homologous recombination. ZHR10h was also found to be a homolog of ZHR10, a bacterial protein that regulates cell migration and invasion in yeast. ZHR10h was shown to be a highly conserved protein that localized to the SC and was required for normal SC formation and homologous recombination. ZHR10h was also found to be a homolog of ZHR10, a bacterial protein that regulates cell migration and invasion in yeast. ZHR10h was shown to be a highly conserved protein that localized to the SC and was required for normal SC formation and homologous recombination. ZHR10h was also found to be a homolog of ZHR10, a bacterial protein that regulates cell migration and invasion in yeast. ZHR10h was shown to be a highly conserved protein that localized to the SC and was required for normal SC formation and homologous recombination. ZHR10h was also found to be a homolog of ZHR10, a bacterial protein that regulates cell migration and invasion in yeast. ZHR10h was shown to be a highly conserved protein that localized to the SC and was required for normal SC formation and homologous recombination. ZHR10h was also found to be a homolog of ZHR10, a bacterial protein that regulates cell migration and invasion in yeast. ZHR10h was shown to be a highly conserved protein that localized to the SC and was required for normal SC formation and homologous recombination. ZHR10h was also found to be a homolog
 Here we present a stochastic model that maps three fundamental patterns for two interacting DNA loops into a 4–state model of stochastic transcription. We find that in contrast to side-by-side loops , nested loops enhance mRNA expression and reduce expression noise whereas alternating loops have just opposite effects . Then , we compare effects of facilitated tracking and direct looping on gene expression . We find that the facilitated chromatin–looping hypothesis performs better than the direct looping hypothesis in controlling expression and tuning noise , but this control or tuning is distance–dependent , remarkable for moderate loop lengths , and there is a limit loop length such that the difference in effect between two communication forms almost disappears . Our results imply that living organisms or cells would use the facilitated–tracking mechanism to deal with information about their environments .
 The study of complex systems is a major challenge in science and engineering. One of the most important aspects of complex systems is their dynamics, which is the study of how they change over time. In this study, we developed a new model for the dynamics of complex systems that takes into account the effects of retroactivity. Retroactivity is a phenomenon where the behavior of a system is influenced by its past behavior. This phenomenon is important in many complex systems, including biological networks. Our model is based on the idea that the dynamics of a complex system can be described as a function of the system's structure and the behavior of its individual components. We used this idea to develop a new model for the dynamics of complex systems that takes into account the effects of retroactivity. Our model is based on the idea that the dynamics of a complex system can be described as a function of the system's structure and the behavior of its individual components. We used this idea to develop a new model for the dynamics of complex systems that takes into account the effects of retroactivity. Our model is based on the idea that the dynamics of a complex system can be described as a function of the system's structure and the behavior of its individual components. We used this idea to develop a new model for the dynamics of complex systems that takes into account the effects of retroactivity. Our model is based on the idea that the dynamics of a complex system can be described as a function of the system's structure and the behavior of its individual components. We used this idea to develop a new model for the dynamics of complex systems that takes into account the effects of retroactivity. Our model is based on the idea that the dynamics of a complex system can be described as a function of the system's structure and the behavior of its individual components. We used this idea to develop a new model for the dynamics of complex systems that takes into account the effects of retroactivity. Our model is based on the idea that the dynamics of a complex system can be described as a function of the system's structure and the behavior of its individual components. We used this idea to develop a new model for the dynamics of complex systems that takes into account the effects of retroactivity. Our model is based on the idea that the dynamics of a complex system can be described as a function of the system's structure and the behavior of its individual components. We used this idea to develop a new model for the dynamics of complex systems that takes into account the effects of retroactivity. Our model is based on the idea that the dynamics of a complex system can be described as a function of the system's structure and the behavior of its individual components. We used this idea to develop a new model for the dynamics of complex systems that takes into account the effects of retroactivity. Our model is based on the idea that the dynamics of a complex system can be described as a function of the system's structure and the behavior of its individual components. We used this idea to develop a new model for the dynamics of complex systems that takes into account the effects of retroactivity. Our model is based on the idea that the dynamics of a complex system can be described as a function of the system's structure and the behavior of its individual components. We used this idea to develop a new model for the dynamics of complex systems that takes into account the effects of retroactivity. Our model is based on the idea that the dynamics of a complex system can be described as a function of the system's structure and the behavior of its individual components. We used this idea to develop a new model for the dynamics of complex systems that takes into account the effects of retroactivity. Our model is based on the idea that the dynamics of a complex system can be described as a function of the system's structure and the behavior of its individual components. We used this idea to develop a new model for the dynamics of complex systems that takes into account the effects of retroactivity. Our model is based on the idea that the dynamics of a complex system can be described as a function of the system's structure and the behavior of its individual components. We used this idea to develop a new model for the dynamics of complex systems that takes into account the effects of retroactivity. Our model is based on the idea that the dynamics of a complex system can be described as a function of the system's structure and the behavior of its individual components. We used this idea to develop a new model for the dynamics of complex systems that takes into account the effects of retroactivity. Our model is based on the idea that the dynamics of a complex system can be described as a function of the system's structure and the behavior of its individual components. We used this idea to develop a new model for the dynamics of complex systems that takes into account the effects of retroactivity. Our model is based on the idea that the dynamics of a complex system can be described as a function of the system's structure and the behavior of its individual components. We used this idea to develop a new model for
 The present work describes a mechanistic model of tumor response to chemotherapy that is capable of predicting the in vivo cell killing efficacy of various chemotherapy combinations. The model incorporates the effect of tumor microenvironment on treatment outcome and the interplay of various biological mechanisms that drive tumor progression. The model has been designed to account for patient-specific data such as imaging-based , histological , molecular and treatment data . Intra-tumor heterogeneity has been implemented via the cancer stem cell ( CSC ) hypothesis . Different resistance profiles of cancer cells have been taken into account . An essential feature of the model is its capability to simulate different proliferation patterns based on the assumed conditions of tumor microenvironment . Eventually tumor progression is regulated by the interplay of the above considered biological mechanisms . The core simulation model of tumor cell multiplication stems from previous work of the In Silchio Oncology-In Silchio Medicine Group , ICCR , National Technical University of Athens [9–12] . In the present work , several extensions and adaptations have been performed to account for the modelling of the combination chemotherapy and the mechanism of action of the drugs considered . Furthermore , by recruiting statistical sampling methods to overcome intrinsic uncertainties in model parameter values , a methodological framework has been proposed that enables the application of mechanistic simulation models on the retrospective analysis of accumulated clinical data in a systemic way . In order to facilitate the interpretation of histological subtypes to model parameters , a comprehensive literature survey on non-small cell lung cancer-specific proliferation kinetics has guided the consideration of biologically-reasonable and cancer-specific value ranges for critical proliferation features . Moreover , in terms of better understanding cancer , the effect of key biological processes that drive tumor progression on treatment response are studied and clinical implications are discussed . Finally , a crucial advancement in relation to previous works is the use of real anonymzed clinical data . The methodology is applied and early validated in the case of neoadjuvant chemotherapy treatment of NSCLC with various combinations of the antineoplastic agent cisplatin with gemcitabine , vinorerbine , and docetaxel . A real clinical dataset of 13 patients with primary NSCLC has been recruited for the purposes of this study . The anonymized data originate from the Institute of Pathology and the Clinical Cancer Registry , University Hospital of Saarard , Germany . The methodology is applied and early validated in the case of neoadjuvant chemotherapy treatment of NSCLC with various combinations of the antineoplastic agent cisplatin with gemcitabine , vinorerbine , and docertaxel . The results of this study provide a quantitative framework for the estimation of the in vivo cell killing efficacy of various chemotherapy combinations . Correlation studies of such estimates with the molecular profile of patients could serve as a basis for reliable personalized predictions . ', Keyword: '['carcinomas', 'cancers and neoplasms', 'cell differentiation', 'oncology', 'developmental biology', 'stem cells', 'adenoccinomas', 'animal cells', 'lung and intrthcic tumors', 'cell biology', 'apoptosis', 'biology and life sciences', 'squamous cell carcinomas', 'cellular types', 'non-small cell lung cancer']', Lay Summary: [/STR] The present work describes a mechanistic model of tumor response to chemotherapy that is capable of predicting the in vivo cell killing efficacy of various chemotherapy combinations. The model incorporates the effect of tumor microenvironment on treatment outcome and the interplay of various biological mechanisms that drive tumor progression. The model has been designed to account for patient-specific data such as imaging-based , histological , molecular and treatment data . Intra-tumor heterogeneity has been implemented via the cancer stem cell ( CSC ) hypothesis . Different resistance profiles of cancer cells have been taken into account . An essential feature of the model is its capability to simulate different proliferation patterns based on the assumed conditions of tumor microenvironment . Eventually tumor progression is regulated by the interplay of the above considered biological mechanisms . The core simulation model of tumor cell multiplication stems from previous work of the In Silchio Oncology-In Silhci Medicine Group , ICCR , National Technical University of Athens [9–12] . In the present work , several extensions and adaptations have been performed to account for the modelling of the combination chemotherapy and the mechanism of action of the drugs considered . Furthermore , by recruiting statistical sampling methods to overcome intrinsic uncertainties in model parameter
 The loss of a metabolic function caused by gene deletion can be compensated by the concurrent deletion of a second gene . This phenomenon, termed synthetic rescue, has been observed in yeast and humans [22, 23] . Here, we used a zebrafish model to study the synthetic rescue of the Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome ( AHDS ), a neurological disorder caused by mutations in the monocarboxylate transporter 8 ( MCT8 ) gene. We generated a zebrafish model lacking MCT8 ( mct8−/− ) using the zinc-finger nuclease ( ZFN ) genome editing system. We found that the loss of MCT8 resulted in altered expression of myelin-related genes, deficiencies in axon branching and synaptic density, and altered locomotor activity and sleep. We also found that TH analogs can restore a portion of the neurological phenotypes. These findings suggest a neurological mechanism and treatment for AHDS and, potentially, other related psychomotor retardation disorders.
 We have developed a stage-specific knockout of the cysteine protease inhibitor ( PbICP ) in Plasmodium berghei and investigated its function in all major life cycle stages. We have shown that PbICP is essential for parasite development in all life cycle stages. In sporozoites , PbICP is constitutively expressed and is secreted during merozoite egress from hepatocytes. In blood stage parasites , PbICP is expressed throughout the life cycle and is secreted during merozoite egress from hepatocytes and during schizont rupture. In liver stage parasites , PbICP is expressed throughout the life cycle and is secreted during merozoite egress from hepatocytes and during schizont rupture. In pre-erythrocytic stages , PbICP is expressed throughout the life cycle and is secreted during merozoite egress from hepatocytes and during schizont rupture. In contrast to blood stage parasites , PbICP-negative parasites exhibited a strong attenuated phenotype in all life cycle stages. Complementation of PbICP-negative parasites with a pbicp-gfp construct fully reversed all knockout defects . These results demonstrate that PbICP is essential for parasite development in all major life cycle stages and that the inhibitor is secreted during all stages of parasite development.
 The nuclear pore complex ( NPC ) is a crucial structure for the regulation of nucleocytoplasmic transport ( NCT ) in eukaryotic cells. NCT is a process by which molecules and macromolecules are transported between the nucleus and cytoplasm. The NPC is a large, dynamic structure that is composed of multiple proteins and is responsible for the selective transport of molecules. However, the molecular mechanisms of NCT are not well understood. In this study, we present a coarse-grained model of the NPC that is based on experimental data and polymer physics principles. The model is able to capture the key features of the NPC, including its structure, dynamics, and transport properties. We also discuss the limitations of the model and suggest areas for future research.
 'Prion diseases are neurodegenerve conditions of humans and and animals that are invariably fatal . The main agent responsible for neurotoxicity in all prion diseases is PrP-scrapi ( PrPSc ) , a β-sheet rich isoform of a normal cell-surface glycopprotein , the prion protein ( PrPC ) . Deposits of PrPSc in the brain pahačyara are believed to induce neurotoxicity , though the underlying cause remains unclear . Here we demonstrate that diseased human , harrtry , harrtry , and mouse brains show signs of iron imbalance in the presence of excess total brain iron , resulting in a state of iron dyshoremsh , implicating a novel extracerryr fhirirr structure in S . aureur biofilhs grown in a non-standard rich media . These fibrri structures share the characteristics of functional bacterrial arryroirs such as curri in Escherricha corri , TarA of Bacrius subvirir , and the Fap fhirriae in PsrR of Bacriur subvirir [13] , [14] , [15] , [16] , [19] , [20] , [21] , [22] , [23] , [24] , [25] , [26] , [27] , [28] , [29] , [30] , [31] , [32] , [33] , [34] , [35] , [36] , [37] , [38] , [39] , [40] , [41] , [42] , [43] , [44] , [45] , [46] , [47] , [48] , [49] , [50] , [51] , [52] , [53] , [54] , [55] , [56] , [57] , [58] , [59] , [60] , [61] , [62] , [63] , [64] , [65] , [66] , [67] , [68] , [69] , [70] , [71] , [72] , [73] , [74] , [75] , [76] , [77] , [78] , [79] , [80] , [81] , [82] , [83] , [84] , [85] , [86] , [87] , [88] , [89] , [90] , [91] , [92] , [93] , [94] , [95] , [96] , [97] , [98] , [99] , [100] , [101] , [102] , [103] , [104] , [105] , [106] , [107] , [108] , [109] , [110] , [111] , [112] , [113] , [113] , [114] , [115] , [116] , [117] , [118] , [119] , [120] , [121] , [122] , [123] , [124] , [125] , [126] , [127] , [128] , [129] , [130] , [131] , [132] , [133] , [133] , [134] , [135] , [136] , [137] , [138] , [139] , [140] , [141] , [142] , [143] , [143] , [144] , [144] , [145] , [145] , [146] , [147] , [148] , [149] , [150] , [151] , [152] ,
 The Type II Secretion System ( T2SS ) is a molecular machine that drives the secretion of fully-folded protein substrates across the bacterial outer membrane . A key element in the machinery is the secretin , an integral , multimi-glycic outer membrane protein that forms the secretion pore . We show that three distinct forms of T2SSs can be distinguished based on the sequence characteristics of their secretin pores . The archetypal T2SS secretin is the outer membrane protein PurD from Klebsiella oxyr-torrica . The PurD polypeptide has three identifiable domains: the N-domain that docks it to the inner membrane components of the T2SS , the secretin domain ( also called the C-domain ) responsible for multimi-gyr-lization , and the S-domain which is critical for PuD to engage the targeting pathway that will deliver it to the outer membrane . This targeting of PuD depends on the action of a lipoprotein chaperron , which carries in its structure the determinants to be recognized by the Lor machinery receptor LolB . The chaperron targeting PuD to the outer membrane is referred to as a pilotin and , in K . oxyr-torrica , the pilotin is called PuS . PurS is the progenitor member of the PuS-OutS family of proteins found in diverse species of γ-proteobacterria . For example , in Dickeya dadantii and Pectobacterarium chrysanthemi the homologous protein is called OutS [22] and in enterohemorrragic Escherichia coli O127:H6 str . E2348/69 ( EPEC ) revealed its function in secreting the protein substrate SslE [23] . SslE is found in very few strains of E . coli , but a homologous protein AcfD is widely distributed in species of Vibrio [24] leading to the hypothesis that organisms like Vibrio cholerae use the T2SS to secrete both cholera toxin and SslE/AcfD [23] , with the expression of the genes encoding cholera toxin and AcfD known to be co-regulated [25] . In EPEC , SslE secretion is required for biofilm formation [23] and , similarly , in V . cholerae genomes have not been reported to encode any members of the PulS-OutS family of proteins . We sought to better understand how the T2SS secretin is assembled into a functional multimi-glycic complex in EPEC . Hidden Markov model analysis of the genome identified a protein called YacC which , while having only 21% sequence identity to the previously characterized EtpO , has the conserved features of the PulS-OutS family of proteins . However , YacC does not function as a pilotin to transport the GspD secretin to the outer membrane in EPEC , as judged by kinetic analysis of protein trafficking and functional assays of T2SS-dependent secretion of SslE . Instead , we found that a distinct lipoprotein AspS ( Alternate secretin pathway subunit S ) functions as the pilotin for GspD in EPEC . In an example of convergent evolution to a common function , the crystal structure of AspS shows it to have no structural similarity whatsoever to the PulS-OutS family of proteins . Biochemical analysis demonstrates that AspS binds to an S-domain sequence in the Vibrio-type secretins , with sequence analysis distinguishing the S-domains of the Klebsiella-type and Vibrio-type secretins . Taken together these findings reveal that distinct classes of T2SS secretins can be recognized: one represented by the Klebsiella PulD which make use of PurS-OutS pilotins , and one represented by the Vibrio EpsD/GspD that makes use of AspS pilotins . We suggest that E . coli pathotypes that have acquired the Klebsiella-type secretin depend on PurS-OutS pilotins such as EtpO , whereas E . coli pathotypes that have acquired the Vibrio-type secretin depend on the AspS pilotin to assemble a functional T2SS . ', Keyword: '['biochemistry', 'gram negative', 'proteins', 'macromolecular assemblies', 'biology
 This study investigates the role of iron acquisition systems in the virulence of Burkholderia pseudomallei, a Gram-negative bacterium that causes the disease melioidosis. The study finds that none of the iron acquisition systems, including siderophores and heme utilization, are required for lethality in an acute murine melioidosis model. The study provides evidence for a ferritin-iron utilization system that may be important for B. pseudomallei's pathogenesis.
 The study aimed to develop a model-inference system for forecasting the timing and magnitude of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) outbreaks in the United States. The model-inference system combines a simple dynamical disease transmission model with a data assimilation filter that updates the model state variables and parameters using time series observations. The study found that the timing and volume of RSV epidemics can be forecast with high accuracy. The study also found that maternal RSV infection and its treatment during pregnancy had no effect on prevalence and intensity of RSV infection or effector immune response to RSV infection among offspring at age five years, but the observed effects on IL-10 responses to SWA suggest that maternal RSV and its treatment during pregnancy may affect immunoregulatory responsiveness in childhood RSV infection. The study has implications for pathogenesis of the disease and suggests that maternal RSV infection and its treatment during pregnancy may affect immunoregulatory responsiveness in childhood RSV infection.
 'Hox proteins are a class of of transcription factors that regulate the expression of target genes in vivo . Hox-dependent morphogenesis is a highly specific process that is regulated by the Hox protein Deformed ( Dfr ) and the Dpp/TGF-β pathway , with both activities functioning on a small wg enhancer [11] , [12] , [13] , [14] , [15] , [16] , [17] , [18] , [19] , [20] , [21] , [22] , [23] , [24] , [25] , [26] , [27] , [28] , [29] , [30] , [31] , [32] , [33] , [34] , [35] , [36] , [37] , [38] , [39] , [40] , [41] , [42] , [43] , [44] , [45] , [46] , [47] , [48] , [49] , [50] , [51] , [52] , [53] , [54] , [55] , [56] , [57] , [58] , [59] , [60] , [61] , [62] , [63] , [64] , [65] , [66] , [67] , [68] , [69] , [70] , [71] , [72] , [73] , [74] , [75] , [76] , [77] , [78] , [79] , [80] , [81] , [82] , [83] , [84] , [85] , [86] , [87] , [88] , [89] , [90] , [91] , [92] , [93] , [94] , [95] , [96] , [97] , [98] , [99] , [100] , [101] , [102] , [103] , [104] , [105] , [106] , [107] , [108] , [109] , [110] , [111] , [121] , [122] , [132] , [133] , [143] , [15] , [16] , [17] , [18] , [19] , [20] , [21] , [22] , [23] , [24] , [25] , [26] , [27] , [28] , [29] , [30] , [31] , [32] , [33] , [34] , [35] , [36] , [37] , [38] , [39] , [40] , [41] , [42] , [43] , [44] , [45] , [46] , [47] , [48] , [49] , [50] , [51] , [52] , [53] , [53] , [54] , [56] , [57] , [58] , [59] , [60] , [61] , [62] , [63] , [64] , [65] , [66] , [67] , [68] , [69] , [70] , [71] , [72] , [73] , [74] , [75] , [76] , [77] , [78] , [79] , [80] , [81] , [82] , [83] , [84] , [85] , [86] , [87] , [88] , [89] , [90] , [91] , [92] , [93] , [94] , [9
 The paper presents a method for evaluating the fit between an ontology and a corpus of text. The method is based on the concept of ontology matching, which measures the similarity between two ontologies. The authors propose a family of metrics, including breadth and depth, to capture the conceptual coverage and parsimony of an ontology. They test these metrics using four commonly used medical ontologies and seven popular English thesauri. The results demonstrate that both medical ontologies and English thesauri have a small overlap in concepts and relations. The authors suggest efforts to tighten the fit between ontologies and discourse. They challenge the method with time-course measures taken in parallel with flow cytometry and time-lapse live cell microscopy in X-ray-treated human ovarian cancer cells. The final model gives for the first time the complete rendering in silico of the cycling process following X-ray exposure, providing separate and quantitative measures of the dose-dependence of G1, S and G2M checkpoint activities in subsequent generations. The authors conclude that their method provides a powerful tool for evaluating the fit between ontology and knowledge domain.
 The study of the mechanisms of bone loss in HIV-infected individuals has been a subject of intense research in recent years. The immune system plays a crucial role in the maintenance of bone homeostasis, and HIV infection can disrupt this balance, leading to bone loss and osteoporosis. In this study, we aimed to clarify the mechanisms of bone loss in HIV-infected individuals, focusing on the role of the immune system. We used a mouse model of HIV infection to study the effects of HIV infection on bone loss and osteoporosis. We found that HIV infection led to an imbalance in the immune system, with a decrease in the number of regulatory T cells and an increase in the number of pro-inflammatory T cells. This imbalance led to an increase in bone loss and osteoporosis. We also found that HIV infection led to an increase in the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as TNF-α and IL-6, which further exacerbated bone loss and osteoporosis. Our findings suggest that the immune system plays a crucial role in bone loss in HIV-infected individuals, and that targeting the immune system may be a potential therapeutic approach for the treatment of bone loss and osteoporosis in HIV-infected individuals.
 The study of the evolution of microRNAs (miRNAs) has been a topic of intense interest in recent years. miRNAs are small non-coding RNA molecules that regulate gene expression by binding to messenger RNA (mRNA) transcripts. They are highly conserved across species and play important roles in many biological processes, including development, differentiation, and disease. The evolution of miRNAs is complex and can be influenced by a variety of factors, including selection pressure, mutation rate, and genome size. The birth and death of miRNAs is a dynamic process that is not yet fully understood. Some miRNAs are highly conserved across species, while others are species-specific or even unique to a single individual. The study of miRNA evolution can provide insights into the mechanisms of genome evolution and the origins of complex traits.
 We present a comprehensive comparison of the performance of several linear mixed model ( LMM ) approaches for adjusting for population substructure in genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) of unrelated individuals. We compare the LMM approaches to traditional family-based approaches ( based on transmission of alleles within pedigrees ) and to alternative approaches based on extending standard case/control tests to allow for either known or unknown relatedness. We investigate the sensitivity to various choices of LMM implementation ( such as the method and number of SNPs used to estimate the kinship matrix ) and the success ( or otherwise ) of the approaches in controlling the overall genome-wide error-rate in both real and simulated data ( into which artificial simulated disease loci have been inserted ) . The approaches are compared via application to real and simulated data derived from a genome-wide association study of visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) in 348 Brazilian families comprising 3636 individuals ( 1970 with both genotype and phenotype data ) . This Brazilian family data set was used ( together with a larger Indian case/control data set ) by Fakiola et al . [13] to identify , at genome-wide levels of significance , a replicable association between variants in the HLA region on chromosome 6 and visceral leishmaniasis . Although in [13] the HLA locus ( analysed using the LMM package MMM [15] ) did not achieve genome-wide levels of significance in the Brazilian data set alone ( p-value ) , this locus was the only one to show strong evidence of association in both Brazilian and Indian data sets , and achieved convincing replication in a separate Indian cohort . Our findings suggest that LMM approaches perform well in comparison to competing approaches and can be used to adjust for population substructure in GWAS of unrelated individuals. The choice of precise LMM implementation cannot be based on power/type I error considerations but must instead be based on considerations such as speed and ease-of-use . Given their strong concordance , in most applications , the choice of precise LMM implementation is likely to be based on the user's preference for speed or ease-of-use . The choice of LMM implementation may also be influenced by the specifics of the data set being analysed, such as the number of SNPs available and the degree of relatedness between individuals. Our findings suggest that LMM approaches are robust and can be used to adjust for population substructure in GWAS of unrelated individuals.
 The general stress response ( GSR ) is a key feature of alphaproteobacteria that allows them to survive in constantly changing environments . The GSR is activated by multiple stresses and leads to multiple stress resistance via the response regulator PhyR . PhyR is activated by the histidine kinase PhyT , which is a bifunctional regulator that tunes GSR activation and prevents lethal over activation of the response. PhyT also acts as a phosphotransferase in a GSR activating phosphorelay. Our data suggest a model in which DENV NS1 disrupts the endothelial glycocalyx layer ( EGL ) on human endothelial cells , inducing degradation of sialic acid and heparan sulfate proteoglycans . This effect is mediated by NS1-induced expression of sialic acid-degrading sialidases and heparan sulfate-degrading hepararhuronurases , which are inhibited by a TLR4 antagonist and an anti-TLR4 antibody. Our data also suggest that NS1 activates toll-like receptor 4 ( TLR4 ) on human endothelial cells , leading to secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines and vascular leakage. This effect is mediated by NS1-induced expression of toll-like receptor 4 ( TLR4 ) and is inhibited by a TLR4 antagonist and an anti-TLR4 antibody. Our data suggest a novel role for DENV NS1 in inducing EGL disruption and endothelial hyperpermeability during severe dengue disease . This effect is mediated by NS1-induced expression of sialidases and hepararhuronurases and is inhibited by a TLR4 antagonist and an anti-TLR4 antibody. Our data also suggest that NS1 activates TLR4 on human endothelial cells , leading to secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines and vascular leakage. This effect is mediated by NS1-induced expression of TLR4 and is inhibited by a TLR4 antagonist and an anti-TLR4 antibody. Our data suggest a novel role for DENV NS1 in inducing EGL disruption and endothelial hyperpermeability during severe dengue disease . This effect is mediated by NS1-induced expression of sialidases and hepararhuronunases and is inhibited by a TLR4 antagonist and an anti-TLR4 antibody. Our data also suggest that NS1 activates TLR4 on human endothelial cells , leading to secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines and vascular leakage. This effect is mediated by NS1-induced expression of TLR4 and is inhibited by a TLR4 antagonist and an anti-TLR4 antibody. Our data suggest a novel role for DENV NS1 in inducing EGL disruption and endothelial hyperpermeability during severe dengue disease . This effect is mediated by NS1-induced expression of sialidases and hepararhuronunases and is inhibited by a TLR4 antagonist and an anti-TLR4 antibody. Our data also suggest that NS1 activates TLR4 on human endothelial cells , leading to secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines and vascular leakage. This effect is mediated by NS1-induced expression of TLR4 and is inhibited by a TLR4 antagonist and an anti-TLR4 antibody. Our data suggest a novel role for DENV NS1 in inducing EGL disruption and endothelial hyperpermeability during severe dengue disease . This effect is mediated by NS1-induced expression of sialidases and hepararhuronunases and is inhibited by a TLR4 antagonist and an anti-TLR4 antibody. Our data also suggest that NS1 activates TLR4 on human endothelial cells , leading to secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines and vascular leakage. This effect is mediated by NS1-induced expression of TLR4 and is inhibited by a TLR4 antagonist and an anti-TLR4 antibody. Our data suggest a novel role for DENV NS1 in inducing EGL disruption and endothelial hyperpermeability during severe dengue disease . This effect
 We have shown that the yeast Sec4p is a multifunctional cytokinin that mediates acute and chronic inflammation , autoimmunity , and inflammatory bowel disease ( IBD ) . Despite genetic inhibition of Sec4p , IBD patients responded normally to such therapy . In addition , Sec4p is a pro-inflammatory cytokinin that mediates the homeostasis of healthy skin . Inhibition of Sec4p causes skin inflammation and hyperproliferation of keatinocytes , which are responsible for the development of psoriasis and lichen planer , and are highly sensitive to TNFα . In addition , Sec4p is a pro-inflammatly cytokinin that mediates the homeostasis of healthy skin , which is highly sensitive to TNFα . Inhibition of Sec4p causes skin inflammation and hyperproliferation of kearinocytes , which are responsible for the development of psoriasis and lichen plany , and are highly sensitive to TNFα . In addition , Sec4p is a pro-inflammatly cytokinin that mediates the homeostasis of healthy skin , which is highly sensitive to TNFα . Inhibition of Sec4p causes skin inflammation and hyperproliferation of kearinocytes , which are responsible for the development of psoriasis and lichen plany , and are highly sensitive to TNFα . In addition , Sec4p is a pro-inflammatly cytokinin that mediates the homeostasis of healthy skin , which is highly sensitive to TNFα . Inhibition of Sec4p causes skin inflammation and hyperproliferation of kearinocytes , which are responsible for the development of psoiasis and lichen plany , and are highly sensitive to TNFα . In addition , Sec4p is a pro-inflammatly cytokinin that mediates the homeostasis of healthy skin , which is highly sensitive to TNFα . Inhibition of Sec4p causes skin inflammation and hyperproliferation of kearinocytes , which are responsible for the development of psoiasis and lichen plany , and are highly sensitive to TNFα . In addition , Sec4p is a pro-inflammatly cytokinin that mediates the homeostasis of healthy skin , which is highly sensitive to TNFα . Inhibition of Sec4p causes skin inflammation and hyperproliferation of kearinocytes , which are responsible for the development of psoiasis and lichen plany , and are highly sensitive to TNFα . In addition , Sec4p is a pro-inflammatly cytokinin that mediates the homeostasis of healthy skin , which is highly sensitive to TNFα . Inhibition of Sec4p causes skin inflammation and hyperproliferation of kearinocyers , which are responsible for the development of psoiasis and lichen plany , and are highly sensitive to TNFα . In addition , Sec4p is a pro-inflammatly cytokinin that mediates the homeostasis of healthy skin , which is highly sensitive to TNFα . Inhibition of Sec4p causes skin inflammation and hyperproliferation of kearinocyes , which are responsible for the development of psoiasis and lichen plany , and are highly sensitive to TNFα . In addition , Sec4p is a pro-inflammatly cytokinin that mediates the homeostasis of healthy skin , which is highly sensitive to TNFα . Inhibition of Sec4p causes skin inflammation and hyperproliferity of kearinocyers , which are responsible for the development of psoiasis and lichen plany , and are highly sensitive to TNFα . In addition , Sec4p is a pro-inflammatly cytokinin that mediates the homeostasis of healthy skin , which is highly sensitive to TNFα . Inhibition of Sec4p causes skin inflammation and hyperproliferity of kearinocyes , which are responsible for the development of psoiasis and lichen plany , and are highly sensitive to TNFα . In addition , Sec4p is a pro-inflammatly cytokinin that mediates the homeostasis of healthy skin , which is highly sensitive to TNFα . Inhibition of Sec4p causes skin inflammation and hyperproliferity of kearinocyes , which are responsible for the development of psoiasis and lichen plany , and are highly sensitive to TNF
 Miltefosine ( MIL ) is an oral antileishmanial drug used for treatment of visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) in the Indian subcontinent . Recent reports indicate a significant decline in its efficacy with a high rate of relapse in VL as well as post kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis ( PKDL ) . We investigated the parasitic factors apparently involved in miltefosine unresponsiveness in clinical isolates of Leishmania donovani . LdRelapse parasites exhibited higher IC50 both at promastigote level ( 7 . 92 ± 1 . 30 μM ) and at intracellular amastigote level ( 11 . 35 ± 6 . 48 μM ) when compared with LdPreTx parasites ( 3 . 27 ± 1 . 52 μM ) and ( 3 . 85 ± 3 . 11 μM ) respectively . MIL uptake was significantly lower in LdRelapse parasites ( 1 . 7 fold , P<0 . 001 ) and in LdM30 parasites ( 2 . 4 fold , P<0 . 001 ) when compared with LdPreTx parasites . MIL induced ROS levels were significantly lower in macrophages infected with LdRelapse while intracellular thiol content were significantly higher in LdRelapse compared to LdPreTx , indicating a better tolerance for oxidative stress in LdRelapse isolates . Genes associated with oxidative stress , metabolic processes and transporters showed modulated expression in LdRelapse and LdM30 parasites in comparison with LdPreTx parasites . The present study highlights the parasitic factors and pathways responsible for miltefosine unresponsiveness in clinical isolates of L . donovani .
 The olfactory bulb ( OB ) is the first relay station in the olfactory pathway and is responsible for the initial processing of odor information. The OB is a complex structure that is composed of two main layers: the glomerular layer and the mitral cell layer. The glomerular layer is composed of a large number of glomeruli, which are the primary sites of odor reception. The mitral cell layer is composed of a small number of mitral cells, which are the output neurons of the OB. Mitral cells are responsible for the final processing of odor information and the generation of an odor response. The activity of mitral cells is modulated by the activity of the glomerular layer, which is influenced by the odor being processed. The activity of mitral cells is also modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The results of this study indicate that the OB is a dynamic structure that is capable of modifying its activity in response to changes in the behavioral context of the animal. The findings of this study also suggest that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the activity of the glomerular layer, which is influenced by the behavioral context of the animal. The results of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The findings of this study also suggest that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The results of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The findings of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The results of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The findings of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The results of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The findings of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The results of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The findings of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The results of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The findings of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The results of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The findings of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The results of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The findings of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The results of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The findings of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The results of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The findings of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The results of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The findings of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The results of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The findings of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The results of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The findings of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The results of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The findings of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The results of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by the behavioral context of the animal. The findings of this study also indicate that the activity of mitral cells is modulated by
 We studied the dynamics of Edar gene expression during molar pattern formation in the developing jaw and found evidence for a complex temporal sequence of events reminiscent of a chemotactic process. We built a mathematical model of molar pattern formation that explains the rescue of the abortive R2 bud in the inhibitory context of Edar loss of function. We found that Edar is necessary for the formation of a fused R2–M1 signaling center in the lower jaw only , possibly through a chemotactic effect. We also found evidence for a causal effect of IR on reduced levels of POA and OA , as well as suggestive evidence for higher levels of tyrosine . We provide a possible explanation for parts of the diabetes-independent risk of cardiovascular disease in persons with IR .
 The study of optimal decision making in dynamic environments is of great interest in both economics and biology. In this study, we investigated the decision making process of fruit flies in a changing environment. We found that the fruit fly has a dedicated mechanism to control forgetting, which is adapted to the time constant of changes in the environment. Our results suggest that forgetting is a dimension of adaptive behavior that is tuned to the environment to maximize subjective benefits.
 This study provides the first evidence that sulforaphane (SFN), a natural product with health benefits, blocks HIV infection in primary human macrophages. SFN activates the transcription factor nuclear erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), which is known to inhibit HIV infection in other cell types. SFN treatment of primary human macrophages blocked HIV infection after reverse transcription but before the formation of 2-LTR circles. This study provides a new approach to understanding the mechanisms underlying the geographic restriction of HIV infection in West Africa.
 The study presents a novel whole-cell-based assay for high throughput screening of compounds against Trypanosoma cruzi, the causative agent of Chagas disease. The assay uses a transgenic T. cruzi strain expressing β-galactosidase, which allows simple detection of parasite growth. The study screened a 2000-compound library and identified three compounds with activity against intracellularly replicating T. cruzi amastigotes in the nanomolar range and low toxicity on mammalian cells. These compounds present different mechanisms of action on parasite division and could be potential leads for the development of new treatments against Chagas disease.
 In this study, we apply a novel mathematical framework based on chemical reaction network theory ( CRNT ) to identify bistable gene regulatory networks ( GRNs ) consisting of two transcription factor ( TF ) -coding genes and their associated proteins. We find that bistability is a common feature of these GRNs , and that the majority of them do not require TF cooperativity to exhibit switch-like behavior. We also identify a set of minimal bistable networks that do not contain any of the TF cooperativity typically associated with bistable systems. These results are based on a comprehensive parameter-free survey of 40 , 680 simple GRN models, and are confirmed by the application of existing computational tools to a subset of the identified bistable networks. Our findings suggest that CRNT can be used to identify bistable modules in organisms that have not been fully explored from a functional genomics perspective. This work is the first to apply CRNT to the study of GRNs , and our results are suggestive of a role for parameter-free modeling in simplifying the study of complex regulatory networks , understanding network evolution , and designing new synthetic biological circuits .
 This study aimed to investigate the role of filarial parasites in lymphatic dysfunction and lymphedema. The authors exposed human lymphatic endothelial cells (LEC) to filarial antigens, live parasites, or infected patient serum and found that live filarial parasites or filarial antigens induced both significant LEC proliferation and differentiation into tube-like structures in vitro. Moreover, serum from patently infected individuals induced significantly increased LEC proliferation compared to sera from uninfected individuals. The authors also found that filarial parasites altered the expression of genes involved in cellular organization and development as well as those associated with junction adherence pathways that in turn decreased trans-endothelial transport as assessed by FITC-Dextran. The data suggest that filarial parasites directly induce lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic differentiation and provide insight into the mechanisms underlying the pathology seen in lymphatic filariasis.
 The olfactory bulb (OB) is the first stage of processing odor information in mammals. The activity of mitral cells (MCs), the output neurons of the OB, is modulated by the environment and by the behavioral context. Here we show that the activity of MCs is modulated by the reward associated with the odor. We find that the response of MCs to a given odor changes when the odor associated with reward is switched. This change in response is context-dependent and is associated with a change in the representation of the odor environment by MCs. These results suggest that early neural representations of odors can be shaped by previously derived meaning, providing a simplified yet biased interpretation of the odor environment to higher cortical structures.
 This study provides new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the M . leprae–SC interaction. We show that PGL I is a prerequisite for bacterial adhesion to and invasion of SCs and that it also modulates the repertoire of cell surface proteins to allow for the entrance of bacteria via alternative pathways. These new invasive pathways induced by PGL I evoke functional changes in the infected cell, including the accumulation of host cell-derived lipids , which favor bacterial survival . These pathways also promote the secretion of inflammatory mediators that may contribute to nerve damage . In an era of translational-oriented research , exploring these receptors in depth could lead to the development of attractive strategies to ensure the targeted intracellular delivery of therapeutics aiming to prevent neuropathy .'; Abstract: 'The evolution of new gene networks is a primary source of genetic innovation that allows bacteria to explore and exploit new niches, including pathogenic interactions with host organisms . For example , the archetypal DNA binding protein , OmpR , is identical between Salmonella Typhimurium serovar Typhimumium and Escherichia coli , but regulatory specialization has resulted in different environmental triggers of OmpR expression and largely divergent OmpR regulons . We found that OmpR binds to its genomic targets in higher abundance when the DNA is relaxed , something that occurs in S . Typhimumium as a result of acid stress and which is a requirement for optimal expression of its virulence genes . In E . coli , OmpR is also sensitive to allosteric effects acting through its cytoplasmic domain: it binds best to DNA that has adopted a relaxed topology . In S . Typhirumium , OmpR regulates the transcription of a number of horizontally acquired genes that are not present in E . coli and are key to S . Typhimumium virulence [24] , [25] . OmpR also regulates the transcription of the ssrA and ssbB genes of the 40-kb SPI-2 pathogenicity island [3] , [28] , [29] . These genes encode a two-component system consisting of the sensor kinase ( SssA ) and cognate DNA binding protein ( SssB ) that regulates the expression of a type III secretion/effector protein system required for intracellular survival and replication of S . Typhirumium inside the acidified vacoular compartment [30] . Adaptation to the vacuole involves a complicated process of transcription regulation and this process is modulated by DNA relaxation [31] . Recently , DNA relaxation was shown to enhance the binding of the OmpR protein at specific target genes in SPI-1 ( hirC , hirD ) , SPI-2 ( sssA ) and the core genome ( ompR ) in vivo and in vitro [3] . Previous work has shown that exposure of S . Typhirumium to low pH might result in elevated levels of active OmpR protein and enhanced binding to its targets throughout the genome . We were also interested to learn if a similar mechanism is used by the closely related bacterium E . coli to regulate its OmpR regulon , not least because the two OmpR proteins in these bacterial species have identical amino acid sequences [34 , this study] . Our findings show that OmpR expression is regulated differently in S . Typhirumium and E . coli and that there are very large differences in the composition of the OmpR regulons in these bacterial species . We find that OmpR shows little DNA sequence specificity in its binding sites and propose that this makes OmpR particularly useful for bringing horizontally acquired genes into an established regulatory circuit encoded by the core genome .', Keyword: '['model organisms', 'genomics', 'genetics', 'microbiology', 'biology', 'molecular cell biology']', Lay Summary: 'This study provides new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the M . leprae–SC interaction. We show that PGL I is a prerequisite for bacterial adhesion to and invasion of SCs and that it also modulates the repertoire of cell surface proteins to allow for the entrance of bacteria via alternative pathways. These new invasive pathways induced by PGL I evoke functional changes in the infected cell, including the accumulation of host cell-derived lipids , which favor bacterial survival . These pathways also promote the secretion of inflammatory medi
 This study provides a comprehensive analysis of the ALR domain subclass of atypical RECs , which are a small but prevalent subset of REC domains in nature . These domains are characterized by the lack of a conserved phosphorylatable Asp residue , and are involved in a variety of cellular processes including DNA-binding , RNA-binding , secondary messenger signaling , Ser phosphorylation and other enzymatic activities . Structural and biochemical analyses of the ALR RitR domain from Streptococcus pneumoniae revealed that in the absence of typical phospho-regulation RitR likely retains the conserved Y/T-coupling mechanism of activation . This study provides a deeper understanding of the role of ALR domains in bacterial and plant signaling and their potential to be exploited as novel signaling modules in synthetic biology .
 The bacterial replication cycle is driven by the DnaA protein which cycles between the active ATP-bound form and the inactive ADP-bound form. It has been suggested that DnaA also is the main controller of initiation frequency. Initiation is thought to occur when enough ATP-DnaA has accumulated. In this work we have performed cell cycle analysis of cells that contain a surplus of ATP-DnaA and asked whether initiation then occurs earlier. It does not. Cells with more than a 50% increase in the concentration of ATP-DnaA showed no changes in timing of replication. We suggest that although ATP-DnaA is the main actor in initiation of replication, its accumulation does not control the time of initiation. ATP-DnaA is the motor that drives the initiation process, but other factors will be required for the exact timing of initiation in response to the cell’s environment. We also investigated the in vivo roles of datA dependent DnaA inactivation ( DDAH ) and the DnaA-binding protein DiaA . Loss of DDAH affected the cell cycle machinery only during slow growth and made it sensitive to the concentration of DiaA protein. The result indicates that compromised cell cycle machines perform in a less robust manner. We also found that a two-fold elevation in the DnaA concentration does not affect the timing of initiation of replication in any of the growth conditions tested. This argues that the DnaA protein , although it constitutes the key feature of the cell cycle motor , is not the limiting factor for precise timing of initiation of replication. Instead , it is more reasonable to assume that even though enough DnaA must be present at the time of initiation , the accumulation of DnaA alone does not trigger the initiation of replication. In an attempt to clarify the role of the DnaA protein in the timing of initiation of replication we have performed flow cytometry analysis of cells containing one or several extra copies of the dnaA gene and cells with minor changes in the cell cycle machinery . We found that a two-fold elevation in the DnaA concentration does not affect the timing of initiation of replication in any of the growth conditions tested. This argues that the DnaA protein , although it constitutes the key feature of the cell cycle motor , is not the limiting factor for precise timing of initiation of replication. Instead , it is more reasonable to assume that even though enough DnaA must be present at the time of initiation , the accumulation of DnaA alone does not trigger the initiation of replication. ATP-DnaA is the motor that drives the initiation process, but other factors will be required for the exact timing of initiation in response to the cell’s environment. We also investigated the in vivo roles of datA dependent DnaA inactivation ( DDAH ) and the DnaA-binding protein DiaA . Loss of DDAH affected the cell cycle machinery only during slow growth and made it sensitive to the concentration of DiaA protein. The result indicates that compromised cell cycle machines perform in a less robust manner. We also found that a two-fold elevation in the DnaA concentration does not affect the timing of initiation of replication in any of the growth conditions tested. This argues that the DnaA protein , although it constitutes the key feature of the cell cycle motor , is not the limiting factor for precise timing of initiation of replication. Instead , it is more reasonable to assume that even though enough DnaA must be present at the time of initiation , the accumulation of DnaA alone does not trigger the initiation of replication. ATP-DnaA is the motor that drives the initiation process, but other factors will be required for the exact timing of initiation in response to the cell’s environment. We also investigated the in vivo roles of datA dependent DnaA inactivation ( DDAH ) and the DnaA-binding protein DiaA . Loss of DDAH affected the cell cycle machinery only during slow growth and made it sensitive to the concentration of DiaA protein. The result indicates that compromised cell cycle machines perform in a less robust manner. We also found that a two-fold elevation in the DnaA concentration does not affect the timing of initiation of replication in any of the growth conditions tested. This argues that the DnaA protein , although it constitutes the key feature of the cell cycle motor , is not the limiting factor for precise timing of initiation of replication. Instead , it is more reasonable to assume that even though enough DnaA must be present at the time of initiation , the accumulation of Dna
 The rat demyelination ( dmy ) mutation serves as a unique model system to investigate the maintenance of myelin , because it provokes severe myelin breakdown in the central nervous system ( CNS ) after normal postnatal completion of myelination . Here , we report the molecular characterization of this mutation and discuss the possible pathomechanisms underlying demyelination . By positional cloning , we found that a G-to-A transition , 177 bp downstream of exon 3 of the Mrs2 ( MRS2 magnesium homeostasis factor ( Saccharomyces cerevisiae ) ) gene , generated a novel splice acceptor site which resulted in functional inactivation of the mutant allele . Transgenic rescue with wild-type Mrs2-cDNA validated our findings . Mrs2 encodes an essential component of the major Mg2+ influx system in mitochondria of yeast as well as human cells . We showed that the dmy/dmy rats have major mitochondrial deficits with a markedly elevated lactic acid concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid , a 60% reduction in ATP , and increased numbers of mitochondria in the swollen cytoplasm of oligodendrocytes . MRS2-GFP recombinant BAC transgenic rats showed that MRS2 was dominantly expressed in neurons rather than oligodendrocytes and was ultrastrructurally observed in the inner membrane of mitochondria . Our observations led to the conclusion that dmy/dmy rats suffer from a mitochondrial disease and that the maintenance of myelin has a different mechanism from its initial production . They also established that Mg2+ homeostasis in CNS mitochondria is essential for the maintenance of myelin .
 The study of the immune response to pathogens is a central issue in biology and medicine. The immune system is a complex network of cells and molecules that work together to protect the host from invading pathogens. One of the key components of the immune system is the adaptive immune response, which is characterized by the ability to generate a diverse repertoire of antibodies and T cells that can recognize and eliminate a wide range of pathogens. The adaptive immune response is generated through a process called somatic recombination, which involves the random combination of gene segments to generate a vast number of unique antibodies and T cell receptors. This process allows the immune system to generate a diverse repertoire of antibodies and T cell receptors that can recognize and eliminate a wide range of pathogens. The study of the immune response to pathogens is important for understanding how the immune system works and how it can be manipulated to improve human health.
 The current study aimed to expand the current epidemiological knowledge by including a further 498 clinical, environmental, and veterinary isolates of the C . neoformans/C . gattii species complex. The study revealed a greater genetic diversity and a wider range of major molecular types being present among Thai cryptococcal isolates than previously reported. The majority of the C . neoformans isolates were molecular type VNI for C . neoformans var . grubii ( serotype A ) , whereas the majority of the C . gattii isolates were molecular type VGII for C . gattii serotype B . The current study also indicated an environmental shift of C . gattii, which was previously thought to be restricted to tropical and subtropical regions. The study provides valuable information for the understanding of the molecular epidemiology of cryptococcosis in Thailand.
 Scabies is a common skin infection caused by the mite Sarcoptes scabiei. It is a major public health burden, particularly in developing countries. Current treatments are limited and often ineffective. In this study, we used a porcine model of scabies to evaluate the efficacy and safety of a single oral dose of moxidectin compared to the standard two-dose regimen of ivermectin. Our results show that a single dose of moxidectin was as effective as two doses of ivermectin in treating scabies, and had a longer half-life and lower toxicity. These findings suggest that moxidectin could be a promising alternative to ivermectin for the treatment of scabies.
 In this study, we investigated the role of type III IFN signaling in the innate immune response to bacterial infection. We found that IFNλ is induced in the course of bacterial infection and results in downregulation of the microRNA miR-21 , sustained expression of PDCD4 , and increased proinflammatory cytokine production . Mice lacking the IFNλ receptor , IL-28R , or PDCD4 had significantly improved clearance of both airway pathogens and less pulmonary pathology associated with reduced levels of inflammatory cytokines . These data suggest that IFNλ promotes inflammation by inhibiting miR-21 regulation of PDCD4 and that PDCD4 is the primary IFN produced by respiratory epithelial cells in response to viral stimulation and is required for clearance of influenza from the airway. The results of this study provide a novel insight into the role of type III IFNs in the innate immune response to bacterial infection and highlight the importance of understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying the innate immune response to bacterial infection. ', Keyword: '[]', Lay Summary: [/INST] In this study, we investigated the role of type III IFN signaling in the innate immune response to bacterial infection. We found that IFNλ is induced in the course of bacterial infection and results in downregulation of the microRNA miR-21 , sustained expression of PDCD4 , and increased proinflammatory cytokine production . Mice lacking the IFNλ receptor , IL-28R , or PDCD4 had significantly improved clearance of both airway pathogens and less pulmonary pathology associated with reduced levels of inflammatory cytokines . These data suggest that IFNλ promotes inflammation by inhibiting miR-21 regulation of PDCD4 and that PDCD4 is the primary IFN produced by respiratory epithelial cells in response to viral stimulation and is required for clearance of influenza from the airway. The results of this study provide a novel insight into the role of type III IFNs in the innate immune response to bacterial infection and highlight the importance of understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying the innate immune response to bacterial infection.
 The study of neural networks has been a major focus of research in recent years. Neural networks are capable of performing complex tasks such as pattern recognition, classification, and decision making. However, the mechanisms underlying these tasks are not fully understood. In this study, we developed a model of a neural network with two plastic layers that can perform a complex task involving pattern discrimination and decision making. The first layer of the model used unsupervised learning to classify the input, while the second layer used rewarded spike time dependent plasticity ( STDP ) to make decisions. The model was capable of solving a more complex task involving discrimination between elementary patterns of food than previously reported in the networks with only one plastic layer based on rewarded STDP. The model was also capable of adjusting its synaptic weights in response to the reward and punishment signals based on the shape of the different configurations of food particles that it acquired. The model was capable of solving a more complex task involving discrimination between elementary patterns of food than previously reported in the networks with only one plastic layer based on rewarded STDP. The model was also capable of adjusting its synaptic weights in response to the reward and punishment signals based on the shape of the different configurations of food particles that it acquired. The model was capable of solving a more complex task involving discrimination between elementary patterns of food than previously reported in the networks with only one plastic layer based on rewarded STDP. The model was also capable of adjusting its synaptic weights in response to the reward and punishment signals based on the shape of the different configurations of food particles that it acquired. The model was capable of solving a more complex task involving discrimination between elementary patterns of food than previously reported in the networks with only one plastic layer based on rewarded STDP. The model was also capable of adjusting its synaptic weights in response to the reward and punishment signals based on the shape of the different configurations of food particles that it acquired. The model was capable of solving a more complex task involving discrimination between elementary patterns of food than previously reported in the networks with only one plastic layer based on rewarded STDP. The model was also capable of adjusting its synaptic weights in response to the reward and punishment signals based on the shape of the different configurations of food particles that it acquired. The model was capable of solving a more complex task involving discrimination between elementary patterns of food than previously reported in the networks with only one plastic layer based on rewarded STDP. The model was also capable of adjusting its synaptic weights in response to the reward and punishment signals based on the shape of the different configurations of food particles that it acquired. The model was capable of solving a more complex task involving discrimination between elementary patterns of food than previously reported in the networks with only one plastic layer based on rewarded STDP. The model was also capable of adjusting its synaptic weights in response to the reward and punishment signals based on the shape of the different configurations of food particles that it acquired. The model was capable of solving a more complex task involving discrimination between elementary patterns of food than previously reported in the networks with only one plastic layer based on rewarded STDP. The model was also capable of adjusting its synaptic weights in response to the reward and punishment signals based on the shape of the different configurations of food particles that it acquired. The model was capable of solving a more complex task involving discrimination between elementary patterns of food than previously reported in the networks with only one plastic layer based on rewarded STDP. The model was also capable of adjusting its synaptic weights in response to the reward and punishment signals based on the shape of the different configurations of food particles that it acquired. The model was capable of solving a more complex task involving discrimination between elementary patterns of food than previously reported in the networks with only one plastic layer based on rewarded STDP. The model was also capable of adjusting its synaptic weights in response to the reward and punishment signals based on the shape of the different configurations of food particles that it acquired. The model was capable of solving a more complex task involving discrimination between elementary patterns of food than previously reported in the networks with only one plastic layer based on rewarded STDP. The model was also capable of adjusting its synaptic weights in response to the reward and punishment signals based on the shape of the different configurations of food particles that it acquired. The model was capable of solving a more complex task involving discrimination between elementary patterns of food than previously reported in the networks with only one plastic layer based on rewarded STDP. The model was also capable of adjusting its synaptic weights in response to the reward and punishment signals based on the shape of the different configurations of food particles that it acquired. The model was capable of solving a more complex task involving discrimination between elementary patterns of food than previously reported in the networks with only one plastic layer based on rewarded STDP. The model was also capable of adjusting its synaptic weights in response to the reward and punishment signals based
 'Genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) have been successfully employed to identify disease susceptibility loci for complex diseases , such as type 2 diabetes ( T2D ) and Crohn's disease ( CD ) . These studies have been able to identify a small number of susceptibility loci for each disease , but have not been able to identify the majority of the genetic risk underlying disease predisposition or phenotypic diversity . The failure of previous studies to achieve satisfactory results for disease risk assessment is not unexpected: First , all these studies have investigated only a limited number of susceptibility loci for disease risk assessment , and have not been able to identify the majority of the genetic risk underlying disease predisposition or phenypic diversity . However , we expect that improved disease risk assessment can be achieved by using algorithms that take into account the complex relationships and interactions between multiple loci contributing to disease risk . In fact , we are optimistic that whole-genome genopy-based disease risk assessment would operate better in T1D than in previous studies of T2D . We are not proposing that the failure of previous studies is a result of of maladaptive approaches , rather than a more sophisticated and robust machine-learning approach. We are also not proposing that the failure of previous studies is a result of of maladaptive approaches , rather than a more sophisticated and robust machine-learning approach. We are optimistic that that the whole-genome genpy-based disease risk assessment would operate better in T1D than in previous studies of T2D . In the current study , we have attempted to address the issues discussed above , by using a comprehensive list of markers reaching a pre-defined statistical threshold for association with a disease , and by utilizing a machine-learning approach that takes advantage of potential interactions between markers to achieve the optimal binary predictive power . Finally , we have used T1D as an example of our efforts for disease assessment . Unlike other common diseases , such as T2D or chronic heart disease , a large fraction of variance in genetic risk is already known forT1D: indeed , over 50% of the genetic susceptibility toT1D pathaphorER can be explained by risk allels in the major hrchr\550 SNP arrays , and the remaining genetic contribution has been attributed to variants conferring more moderate risks [27] . The availability of multiple GWAS datasets for T1D , including samples from different geographical sites , genotyped at different locations and on different genotpy platforms ( Affyrmer Mapping 500K and Illurra HumanH550 SNP arrays ) , allows the unbiased and systematic comparative evaluation of different methods , including logistic regression assuming independence between variants , and the use of a large number of markers reaching a pre-defined statistical threshold for association with a disease , and the remaining genetic contribution has been attributed to variants conferding more conventional risks [27] , [28] , [31] , [32] , [33] , [34] , [35] , [36] , [37] , [38] , [39] , [40] , [41] , [42] , [43] , [44] , [45] , [46] , [47] , [48] , [49] , [50] , [51] , [52] , [53] , [54] , [55] , [56] , [57] , [58] , [59] , [60] , [61] , [62] , [63] , [64] , [65] , [66] , [67] , [68] , [69] , [70] , [71] , [72] , [73] , [74] , [75] , [76] , [77] , [78] , [79] , [80] , [81] , [82] , [83] , [84] , [85] , [86] , [87] , [88] , [89] , [90] , [91] , [92] , [93] , [94] , [95] , [96] , [97] , [98] , [99] , [100] , [101] , [102] , [103] , [103] , [104] , [105] , [106] ,
 'Leishmaniasis is a group of neglected tropical diseases caused by parasites of the genus Leishmania . The parasites are transmitted by female phlebotomine sandflies and the disease occurs in human in two different clinical forms: ( i ) cutaneous ( CL , referring to the greater group of American tegumentary leishmaniasis ) , which causes skin or mucosal lesion; and ( ii ) visceral ( VL ) , which affects organs such as the liver and spleen [1] . The burden of leishmaniasis has been increasing worldwide [2] , [6] . In Brazil , for example , the number of CL cases climbed from 6 , 335 in 1984 to 30 , 030 in 1996 [7] . From 1990 to 2007 some 560 , 000 new cases of leishmaniasis were reported , primarily CL [8] . However , after 2005 , the total number of CL cases has dropped and remained stable , just above 20 , 000 . Strategies for the control of leishmaniasis in Brazil have not changed over the past 60 years , which might explain why incidence did not decrease [9] . The difficulties in case reporting and detection are the main obstacles for such a program . At the same time , due to heterogeneity between the sandfly species , vector control introduces high costs . Effective control requires reliable maps of the spatial distribution of the disease , as well as the number of affected people , so that treatment and other control interventions can be implemented most cost-effectively . Bayesian geostatistical models have been applied in the mapping of malaria [11]–[14] and neglected tropical diseases [15]–[18] . Geostatistical models relate the disease data with potential predictors and quantify spatial dependence via the covariance matrix of a Gaussian process facilitated by adding random effects at the observed locations . However , covariance matrix computations hamper implementation of the models on data collected over large number of locations ( >1 , 000 ) . Different methodologies have been proposed to address this issue ( for a recent review see [19] ) . A predictive process approach , developed by Banerjee et al . ( 2008 ) [20] , has been successfully applied in infectious disease mapping ( see , for example , [18] ) . Rue and colleagues ( 2009 ) [23] provide fast computational algorithms for latent Gaussian models , based on integrated nested Laplace approximations ( INLA ) . There are only few studies that assessed the spatio-temporal distribution , including underlying risk factors , of leishmaniasis in Brazil . Chaves et Pascual ( 2006 ) [24] explored the temporal association of CL cases in Costa Rica by taking into account climatic variables . Chaves et al . ( 2008 ) [25] used negative binomial models with breakpoints to analyze CL incidence in Costa Rica . Valderrama-Ardila et al . ( 2010 ) [26] studied environmental determinants of CL incidence in an area of Colombia , using spatial models . Weinberg et al . ( 2004 ) [27] analyzed VL incidence in Corte de Pedra over a 20-year period and analyzed demographic characteristics of CL patients . Jimmanus et al . ( 2012 ) [29] examined seasonal variation of CL incidence in Corte de Pedra over a 20-year period and analyzed demographic characteristics of CL patients . Alval et al . ( 2012 ) [5] provided worldwide estimates of leishmaniasis and included incidence maps of Brazil corresponding to raw data aggregated by state . In this study , we analyzed incidence data of CL and VL obtained by the information system for notifiable diseases ( ISND ) during 2001 to 2010 from the MoH in Brazil . We employed Bayesian geostastical negative binomial models , fitted via INLA to predict the incidence of the diseases , using climatic , environmental , and socioeconomic covariates . We produced countrywide high resolution maps for leishmaniasis and estimated the number of infected people at the unit of the state . The generated incidence maps and estimates might be useful for decision-makers to prioritize intervention areas , and optimizing resources allocation to render control and elimination efforts most cost-effective .', Keyword:
 Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a severe necrotizing human skin disease caused by Mycobacterium ulcerans . Clinically , presentation is a sum of these diverse pathogenic hits subjected to critical immune-regulatory mechanisms . Among them , autophagy has been demonstrated as a cellular process of critical importance . Since microtubules and dynein are affected by mycolactone , the critical pathogenic exotoxin produced by M . ulcerans , cytoskeleton-related changes might potentially impair the autophagic process and impact the risk and progression of infection . Genetic variants in the autophagy-related genes NOD2 , PARK2 and ATG16L1 has been associated with susceptibility to mycobacterial diseases . Here , we investigated their association with BU risk , its severe phenotypes and its progression to an ulcerative form . Genetic variants were genotyped using KASPar chemistry in 208 BU patients ( 70 . 2% with an ulcerative form and 28% in severe WHO category 3 phenotype ) and 300 healthy endemic controls . The rs1333955 SNP in PARK2 was significantly associated with increased susceptibility to BU [odds ratio ( OR ) , 1 . 43; P = 0 . 05] . In addition , both the rs9302752 and rs2066842 SNPs in NOD2 gee significantly increased the predisposition of patients to develop category 3 ( OR , 2 . 23; P = 0 . 02; and OR 12 . 7; P = 0 . 03 , respectively , whereas the rs2241880 SNP in ATG16L1 was found to significantly protect patients from presenting the ulcer phenotype ( OR , 0 . 35; P = 0 . 02) . Our findings indicate that specific genetic variants in autophagy-related genes influence susceptibility to the development of BU and its progression to severe phenotypes .
 The cyclic life of hair follicles consists of recurring phases of growth, decay, and rest. Previous studies have identified signals that prompt a new phase of hair growth through the activation of resting hair follicle stem cells ( HF-SCs ) , and the entry of HFs into an anaerobic phase. However, the role of perifollicular macrophages in HF-SC activation and the spatial and temporal cyclic activation of HF-SCs remains unclear. Here, we show that perifollicular macrophages surround and signal to resting HF-SCs , regulating their entry into a new phase of hair growth. This process involves the death and activation of a fraction of resident macrophages—resulting in Wnt ligand release—that in turn activate HF-SCs . These findings reveal additional mechanisms controlling endogenous stem cell pools that are likely to be relevant for modulating stem cell regenerative capabilities. The results provide new insights that may have implications for the development of technologies with potential applications in regeneration, aging, and cancer.
 This study aimed to identify novel genetic susceptibility loci for breast cancer among women of East Asian descent. We conducted a four-stage genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) in 19 , 091 cases and 20 , 606 controls of Chinese , Korean , and Japanese women. After analyzing 690 , 947 SNPs in 2 , 918 cases and 2 , 324 controls , we evaluated 5 , 365 SNPs for replication in 3 , 972 cases and 3 , 852 controls . Ninety-four SNPs were further evaluated in 5 , 203 cases and 5 , 138 controls , and finally the top 22 SNPs were investigated in up to 17 , 423 additional subjects ( 7 , 489 cases and 9 , 934 controls ) . SNP rs9485372 , near the TGF-β activated kinase ( TAB2 ) gene in chromosome 6q25 . 1 , showed a consistent association with breast cancer risk across all four stages , with a P-value of 3 . 8×10−12 in the combined analysis of all samples . Adjusted odds ratios ( 95% confidence intervals ) were 0 . 89 ( 0 . 85–0 . 94 ) and 0 . 80 ( 0 . 75–0 . 86 ) for the A/G and A/A genotypes , respectively , compared with the genotype G/G . SNP rs9383951 ( P = 1 . 9×10−6 from the combined analysis of all samples ) , located in intron 5 of the ESR1 gene , and SNP rs7107217 ( P = 4 . 6×10−7 ) , located at 11q24 . 3 , also showed a consistent association in each of the four stages . This study provides strong evidence for a novel breast cancer susceptibility locus represented by rs9485372 , near the TAB2 gene ( 6q25 . 1 ) , and identifies two possible susceptibility loci located in the ESR1 gene and 11q24 . 3 , respectively .
 In this paper we present a novel approach to assessing the confidence levels of interactions in PPI networks obtained from experimental studies . We use a geometric random graph model to model PPI networks , and we show that it can be used to de-noise PPI data sets by detecting false positives and false negative interactions . We apply our approach to de-noising PPI data sets by detecting false positives and false negative interactions , and we predict novel ones . In this paper we use a network model of PPI networks for purposes other than just generating synthetic data sets . We demonstrate that a geometric random graph model can be used for assessing the confidence levels of known interactions in PPI networks and predicting novel ones . We apply our technique to de-noisy PPI data sets by detecting false positives and false negative interactions , and we predict novel ones . In this paper we use a network model of PPI networks for purposes other than just generating synthetic data sets , and we show that it can be used to predict the confidence levels of known interactions in PPI networks and predict new ones . In the final section , we compare our approach with existing PPI network post-processing techniques in the literature and discuss their respective advantages and limitations . We also show how our approach can be extended to handle more complex PPI networks and how it can be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under various experimental conditions . We conclude that our approach provides a novel and experimentally testable method for assessing the confidence levels of interactions in PPI networks and predicting new ones . Our work thus extends our understanding of the dynamics of PPI networks and provides a new approach to de-noising PPI data sets by detecting false positives and false negative interactions . We also show how our approach can be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under various experimental conditions . We demonstrate that our approach is robust and efficient , and can be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under a wide variety of conditions . We also show how our approach can be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under various experimental conditions , and how it can be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under different experimental conditions . We show that our approach can be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under a wide variety of conditions , including those with high noise levels , and thus high false positive rates . We also show how our approach can be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under various experimental conditions , and how it can be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under different experimental conditions . We demonstrate that our approach is robust and efficient , and can be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under various experimental conditions . We also show how our approach can be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under different experimental conditions , and how it can be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under different experimental conditions , and how it can be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under different experimental conditions . We show that our approach is robust and efficient , and can be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under various experimental conditions , and how it could be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under different experimental conditions . We demonstrate that our approach is robust and efficient , and can be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under various experimental conditions , and how it could be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under different experimental conditions , and how it could be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under different experimental conditions , and how it could be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under different experimental conditions , and how it could be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under different experimental conditions , and how it could be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under different experimental conditions , and how it could be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under different experimental conditions , and how it could be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under different experimental conditions , and how it could be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under different experimental conditions , and how it could be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under different experimental conditions , and how it could be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under different experimental conditions , and how it could be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under different experimental conditions , and how it could be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under different experimental conditions , and how it could be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under different experimental conditions , and how it could be used to model and predict the dynamics of PPI networks under different experimental conditions , and how it could be used to model and predict the
 This study evaluated the diagnostic performance of two commercial IgM kits and two in-house IgM assays for the detection of anti-Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) IgM antibodies in sera from two independent outbreaks caused by different CHIKV strains. The two commercial kits, CTK lateral flow rapid test and EUROIMMUN IFA assay, were found to have different sensitivities in the two outbreaks. The in-house MAC-ELISA assays using CHIKV-A226 and CHIKV-226V strains had sensitivities of 3.96 days and 4.86 days after fever onset, respectively. The probe-based real time RT-PCR method was found to be 10 times more sensitive than the SYBR Green method. The results suggest that the choice of assay and the timing of antibody detection may affect the accuracy of diagnosis in different outbreaks caused by different CHIKV strains.
 The mosquito Aedes aegypti is a major vector of dengue, chikungunya, and yellow fever viruses. Traditional surveillance relies on household larval surveys, which are costly and time-consuming. Traps are an alternative to larval surveys, but there is no consensus on which trap is the most effective. We compared four different traps (ovitrap, MosquiTRAP, Adultrap, and BioGent-Sentinel) with the standard larval survey in five cities in Brazil. We found that all traps were sensitive to changes in mosquito abundance, but the larval survey was the least sensitive. The BioGent-Sentinel trap was the most specific, capturing only host-seeking females. The ovitrap was the most consistent trap, producing similar indices in all cities. The MosquiTRAP and Adultrrap were less consistent, producing variable indices. The trap indices were also compared with the larval survey indices. The BioGent-Sentinel trap produced the highest correlation with the larval survey, while the ovitrap produced the lowest correlation. The Adultrap and MosquiTRAP produced intermediate correlations. These results suggest that the BioGent-Sentinel trap is the most suitable trap for surveillance in all cities, as it is the most specific and consistent trap. The ovitrap is also a suitable trap, but only in cities with low mosquito abundance. The Adultrrap and MosquiTRAP are less suitable, as they are less specific and consistent. These results can guide the choice of trap for surveillance programs in different cities.
 We develop a novel systematic analysis of the dynamics of small neural networks composed of a few tens of neurons , which represent the lower bound of the mesoscopic scale . We find that for strong inhibition , the neural network undergoes a special bifurcation known as pitchfork or branching point , from which multiple solutions of the neural equations emerge . On the new branches , new bifurcations can occur , enriching considerably the complexity of the bifurcation diagram of the neural network . This dynamics is not revealed by the mean-field approximation . We introduce a mathematical theory that describes local bifurcations analytically . We find qualitative differences with the mean-field approximation when the system has strong inhibitory synaptic weights . In this case , through a phenomenon of spontaneous symmetry-breaking , the neural network undergoes a special bifurcation known as pitchfork or branching point [49] , from which multiple solutions of the neural equations emerge . On the new branches , new bifurcations can occur , enriching considerably the complexity of the bifurcation diagram of the neural network . This dynamics is not revealed by the mean-field approximation . This article is organized as follows . In Materials and Methods we describe the neural model we use . We then explain intuitively in Results the formation of new branches of solutions through spontaneous symmetry-breaking , depending on the strength of inhibition . This is followed by a numerical and analytical study of the bifurcations of the network in weak and strong-inhibition regimes for different sizes of the inhibitory population . In Discussion we conclude by examining the biological implications of our results and by comparing our approach with previous work on homogeneous networks .]; Abstract: 'We develop a novel systematic analysis of the dynamics of small neural networks composed of a few tens of neurons , which represent the lower bound of the mesoscopic scale . We find that for strong inhibition , the neural network undergoes a special bifurcation known as pitchfork or branching point , from which multiple solutions of the neural equations emerge . On the new branches , new bifurcations can occur , enriching considerably the complexity of the bifurcation diagram of the neural network . This dynamics is not revealed by the mean-field approximation . We introduce a mathematical theory that describes local bifurcations analytically . We find qualitative differences with the mean-field approximation when the system has strong inhibitory synaptic weights . In this case , through a phenomenon of spontaneous symmetry-breaking , the neural network undergoes a special bifurcation known as pitchfork or branching point [49] , from which multiple solutions of the neural equations emerge . On the new branches , new bifurcations can occur , enriching considerably the complexity of the bifurcation diagram of the neural network . This dynamics is not revealed by the mean-field approximation . This article is organized as follows . In Materials and Methods we describe the neural model we use . We then explain intuitively in Results the formation of new branches of solutions through spontaneous symmetry-breaking , depending on the strength of inhibition . This is followed by a numerical and analytical study of the bifurcations of the network in weak and strong-inhibition regimes for different sizes of the inhibitory population . In Discussion we conclude by examining the biological implications of our results and by comparing our approach with previous work on homogeneous networks .';
 The paper presents a computational framework for modelling plant growth and development, called the Growing Polarised Tissue (GPT) framework. The framework is based on the idea that growth is specified independently of stresses through molecular signalling, which establishes a local polarity. The framework is implemented in a MATLAB application called GFtbox. The authors use the framework to model the growth of a Snapdragon flower, and show how the framework can be used to explore the relationship between growth and polarity, and how different growth patterns can interact to generate complex shapes. The authors also provide theoretical foundations for the framework, and discuss its potential applications.
 The ophthalmo-acromelic syndrome ( OAS ) is a rare congenital disorder characterized by anophthalmia , limb anomalies and learning disability . The molecular basis of OAS is unknown but a locus on 10p11.23 has been suggested . We report the identification of a locus for OAS on 14q24.2 with subsequent identification of homozygous , predicted loss-of-function mutations in the SMOC1 gene in eight out of fourteen unrelated families with OAS . Whole mount in situ hybridisation ( WISH ) combined with optical projection tomography ( OPT ) shows site- and stage-specific developmental expression of the orthologous mouse gene , Smoc1 , in embryonic limb bud and craniofacial structures . The phenotype associated with homozygosity for a targeted “pre-conditional” gene-trap mouse mutation of Smoc1 also shows significant overlap with the human disease . SMOC-1 and SMOC-2 appear to be the two vertebrate paralogs of the Drosophila protein Pentagone that has recently been shown to function as an antagonist of Decapentaplegic ( Dpp ) signaling in vivo . We discuss the potential role for SMOC-1 in modulating BMP signaling during eye and limb development .
 In this study , we have attempted to identify the target genes of the Sal proteins in the wing disc of Drosophila . We have used a combination of approaches including in situ hybridization , [19] , [20] , and phenotypic analysis to identify candidate genes regulated by the Sal proteins . We have identified a collection of candidate genes that are regulated by the Sal proteins and might mediate their functions in the wing disc . Our work has identified a complex transcriptional landscape regulated by the Spart proteins in the wing disc , which is required for wing growth and patterning . The identification of these target genes is of critical importance to understand the genetic hierarchy acting downstream of Dpp signalling in the wing disc . These findings may be of value in understanding the genetic control of growth and patterning of the wing disc , and also in the development of new strategies for the control of rabies in the field .', Abstract: 'The Drosophila genome encodes a number of transcription factors that regulate the development of the wing disc . The Dpp signalling pathway is required for wing growth and patterning , but the same pathway controls growth and patterning during imaginal disc development . The wing disc is an epithelial tissue that grows by cell proliferation during the larval development of the fly , and differentiates the wing and half of the thorax during pupar development . The growth of the epithelium is accompanied by a progressive specification of spatial territories with different genetic identities . Several signalling pathways play a fundamental role during this process in part by regulating the expression of transcription factors . Among these pathways , the Dpp signalling pathway specifies the central region of the wing blade , its growth and patterning . The spart genes can engage in a variety of interactions with other proteins and with DNA , and they can act as transcriptional repressors or activators . Salr and Spart major ( Salr and Salm ) belong to a conserved family of transcriptional regulators that in vertebraries include four components ( Spart-like/Sarr1-4 ) with important developmental roles during neural development and organogenesis [9] , [13–18] . In fact , two human Sarr genes are related to the genetic diseases Towners Brokers Syndrome ( SALL1 ) [10] and Okihiro Syndrome ( SALL4 ) [11 , 12] . The Sal proteins can engage in a variety of interactions with other proteins and with DNA , and they can act as transcriptional repressors or activators [9 , 13–15] . The spart genes play a central role in mediating the effects of Dpp signalling during wing disc development [8] , but the identity of Sal target genes is still unknown . Thus , only two gene complexes , the knhips and Iroquois gene complexes , have being identified as candidate downstream genes of Sal in the specification of vein territories [19 , 20] . However , Sal proteins are not only required for vein patterning , but also to promote cell division and survival in the central region of the wing , and they contribute to the maintenance of epithelial integrity in this territory [8] , [21] . The identification of Salm/Salh target genes is of critical importance to understand the genetic hierarchy acting downstream of Dpp signalling in the wing disc . Here we describe the global transcriptional changes that occur in salm/salh knockdown discs . These data , in combination with in situ hybridization assays and phenotypic analysis has allowed us to identify a collection of candidate genes that are regulated by the Sal proteins and might mediate their functions in the wing disc . Our work has identified an unsurpected transcriptional complexity occurring downstream of Spart that involves repression as well as activation of gene expression . The identification of these target genes is of critical importance to understand the genetic control of growth and patterning of the wing disc , and also in the development of new strategies for the control of rabies in the field .', Keyword: '[]', Lay Summary: [/STR] In this study , we have attempted to identify the target genes of the Sal proteins in the wing disc of Drosophila . We have used a combination of approaches including in situ hybridization , [19] , [20] , and phenotypic analysis to identify candidate genes regulated by the Sal proteins . We have identified a collection of candidate genes that are regulated by the Sal proteins and might mediate their functions in the wing disc . Our work has identified a complex transcriptional landscape reg
 The neural response to sensory stimuli is a complex process that involves the encoding of sensory information into a neural code, the transmission of this code through neural networks, and the decoding of the code at the output level. The encoding process involves the adaptation of the neural response to the statistical properties of the sensory input. This adaptation can be achieved through several mechanisms, including the infomax principle, which suggests that the neural response should be optimized to maximize the information transmitted about the sensory input, and the selective coding principle, which suggests that the neural response should be optimized to encode only the most important sensory information. In this study, we used a simple model of a sensory neuron to investigate the adaptation of the neural response to sensory stimuli with different statistical properties. We found that the neural response adapts to the statistical properties of the sensory input in a way that is consistent with both the infomax and the selective coding principles. Our results suggest that the neural response is optimized to both maximize the information transmitted about the sensory input and to encode only the most important sensory information. These findings have important implications for our understanding of the encoding and transmission of sensory information in the nervous system.
 We show that RpoS is required for the transmission of Lyme disease spirochetes by feeding nymphs . RpoS-deficient spirochetes replicate at wild-type levels during the nymphal blood meal , but mutant organisms display an aberrant morphology , previously referred to as round bodies or cysts , as feeding progresses . We show that round body formation is rapidly reversible , and in vitro appears to be attributable , in part , to reduced levels of Coenzyme A disulfide reductase , which among other functions , provides NAD+ for glycolysis . Our findings reveal a previously unsurpected role for RpoSBb in the physiological adaptations required for tick-to-mammal transmission as well as the existence of a proposed default survival mode ( round body formation ) triggered when spirochetes are unable to produce sufficient energy for dissemination within the nymph . These findings provide a new perspective on the role of RpoS in the enzootic cycle of B . burgdofei and suggest that RpoS-dependent genes are required for the transmission of spirochetes by feeding nymphs . The data presented here provide a new framework for understanding the complexities of the tick-to-mammal transition and the role of RpoS in this process. The findings also provide a new perspective on the role of RpoS in the physiological adaptations required for tick-to-mammal transmission as well as the existence of a proposed default survival mode ( round body formation ) triggered when spirochetes are unable to produce sufficient energy for dissemination within the nymph . These findings provide a new perspective on the role of RpoS in the enzootic cycle of B . burgdofei and suggest that RpoS-dependent genes are required for the transmission of spirochetes by feeding nymphs . The data presented here provide a new framework for understanding the complexities of the tick-to-mammal transition and the role of RpoS in this process. The findings also provide a new perspective on the role of RpoS in the physiological adaptations required for tick-to-mammal transmission as well as the existence of a proposed default survival mode ( round body formation ) triggered when spirochetes are unable to produce sufficient energy for dissemination within the nymph . These findings provide a new perspective on the role of RpoS in the enzootic cycle of B . burgdofei and suggest that RpoS-dependent genes are required for the transmission of spirochetes by feeding nymphs . The data presented here provide a new framework for understanding the complexities of the tick-to-mammal transition and the role of RpoS in this process. The findings also provide a new perspective on the role of RpoS in the physiological adaptations required for tick-to-mammal transmission as well as the existence of a proposed default survival mode ( round body formation ) triggered when spirochetes are unable to produce sufficient energy for dissemination within the nymph . These findings provide a new perspective on the role of RpoS in the enzootic cycle of B . burgdofei and suggest that RpoS-dependent genes are required for the transmission of spirochetes by feeding nymphs . The data presented here provide a new framework for understanding the complexities of the tick-to-mammal transition and the role of RpoS in this process. The findings also provide a new perspective on the role of RpoS in the physiological adaptations required for tick-to-mammal transmission as well as the existence of a proposed default survival mode ( round body formation ) triggered when spirochetes are unable to produce sufficient energy for dissemination within the nymph . These findings provide a new perspective on the role of RpoS in the enzootic cycle of B . burgdofei and suggest that RpoS-dependent genes are required for the transmission of spirochetes by feeding nymphs . The data presented here provide a new framework for understanding the complexities of the tick-to-mammal transition and the role of RpoS in this process. The findings also provide a new perspective on the role of RpoS in the physiological adaptations required for tick-to-mammal transmission as well as the existence of a proposed default survival mode ( round body formation ) triggered when spirochetes are unable to produce sufficient energy for dissemination within the nymph . These findings provide a new perspective on the role of RpoS in the enzootic cycle of B . burgdofei and suggest that RpoS-
 The last 15 years have contributed decisively towards the dissection of the enzymatic pathways that lead to peroxide elimination in trypanosomatids , a group of organisms that includes Leishmania spp . , Trypanosoma brucei and Trypanosoma cruzi , the causative agents of the different manifestations of leishmaniasis , African sleeping sickness and Chagas' disease , respectively . In these protozoan parasites , which lack the highly efficient enzymes catalase and selenium-containing glutathione peroxidases ( GPXs ) , members of the peroxiredoxin family are regarded as key elements of the peroxide-reduction machinery [1] . Peroxiredoxins return to their reduced state upon reduction of the disulfide by an appropriate electron donor . In trypanosomatids such reductant is a unique oxidoreductase of the thioredoxin superfamily , known as tryparedoxin [4] , which itself is reduced by these organisms' specific thiol trypanothione [N1 , N8-bis ( glutathionyl ) spermidine; 1 , 3] . For that reason trypanosomatid PRXs are commonly referred to as tryparedoxin peroxidases or TXNPxs . Apart from participating in antioxidant defense , members of the 2-Cys PRX subfamily are increasingly recognized as playing a more subtle and sophisticated role as regulators of peroxide-mediated cell signaling [2] . More recently , a function as molecular chaperones has also been proposed for some of these enzymes [5] , [6] . In trypanosomatids 2-Cys PRXs are present in the parasites' cytosol and single mitochondrion [1] . Cytosolic 2-Cys PRXs ( or cTXNPxs ) are believed to work as general antioxidant devices that minimize the oxidative insult generated by the parasites' host . In agreement with this , overexpression of cTXNPx in L . infantum and T . cruzi was found to confer resistance to H2O2 and peroxynitrite of exogenous origin [7]–[12] , while down-regulation of the T . brucei counterpart enhanced sensitivity to bolus H2O2 [13] . This peroxidase activity should be particularly relevant for Leishmania and T . cruzi , which can invade and proliferate in phagocytes . Not surprisingly , cTXNPxs of these organisms were pointed out as important virulence factors [12] , [14]–[17] . Mitochondrial TXNPxs ( or mTXNPxs ) are , due to their location , favorably positioned to eliminate peroxides produced endogenously , namely those formed as by-products of oxidative phosphorylation , and this was argued to be their main function [7] , [8] , [11] . However , the observation that overexpression of mTXNPx confers protection towards exogenously added and macrophage-derived H2O2 and peroxynitrite [7] , [8] , [10] , [11] , suggested that these enzymes might also contribute to shield trypanosomatids from the oxidative challenge induced by their hosts . This assumption was strengthened by the observation that increased mTXNPx expression is associated with virulent T . cruzi phenotypes [17] . Apart from functioning as general antioxidant devices , the Leishmania donovani mTXNPx was reported to prevent H2O2-induced programmed cell death [18] . One additional , peroxidase-related role suggested for mTXNPxs was regulation of kinetoplast DNA ( kDNA ) replication . The kDNA is a network of catenated maxi and mini DNA circles that compose the mitochondrial DNA of trypanosomatids and whose replication is initiated when the universal minicircle sequence binding protein ( UMSBP ) binds specific sequences on minicircle DNA [19] . UMSBP binds to the DNA when it is reduced and is released when oxidized . According to the proposed model , mTXNPx would oxidize UMSBP [20] . The decreased infectivity of the mutants may be explained by the ability of mTXNPx to function as a chaperone , an activity disclosed here . Importantly ,
 The rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae is a major pathogen of rice, causing significant yield losses and posing a threat to global food security . Despite the importance of this fungus, little is known about how it regulates its gene expression in response to various environmental stimuli . Here we report the results of a comprehensive analysis of the transcriptional regulation of M . oryzae genes encoding CAZymes involved in the degradation of plant polysaccharides . We used a combination of quantitative real-time PCR , RNA sequencing , and enzymatic assays to identify the CAZymes that are up-regulated in response to various plant polysaccharides and to determine their functional roles in the degradation of plant biomass . Our results provide new insights into the regulatory mechanisms underpinning the metabolism of plant polysaccharides by M . oryzae . These data may be useful for understanding the molecular mechanisms of plant pathogenesis and for developing strategies to control plant diseases .', Keyword: '['biology', 'microbiology', 'microbial physiology', 'microbial genomics', 'microbial metabolism', 'microbial pathogenesis', 'microbial ecology', 'microbial evolution', 'microbial adaptation']', Lay Summary: 'Magnaporthe oryzae is a major pathogen of rice, causing significant yield losses and posing a threat to global food security . Despite the importance of this fungus, little is known about how it regulates its gene expression in response to various environmental stimuli . Here we report the results of a comprehensive analysis of the transcriptional regulation of M . oryzae genes encoding CAZymes involved in the degradation of plant polysaccharides . We used a combination of quantitative real-time PCR , RNA sequencing , and enzymatic assays to identify the CAZymes that are up-regulated in response to various plant polysaccharides and to determine their functional roles in the degradation of plant biomass . Our results provide new insights into the regulatory mechanisms underpinning the metabolism of plant polysaccharides by M . oryzae . These data may be useful for understanding the molecular mechanisms of plant pathogenesis and for developing strategies to control plant diseases .', Keyword: '['biology', 'microbiology', 'microbial physiology', 'microbial genomics', 'microbial metabolism', 'microbial pathogenesis', 'microbial ecology', 'microbial evolution', 'microbial adaptation']', Lay Summary: 'Magnaporthe oryzae is a major pathogen of rice, causing significant yield losses and posing a threat to global food security . Despite the importance of this fungus, little is known about how it regulates its gene expression in response to various environmental stimuli . Here we report the results of a comprehensive analysis of the transcriptional regulation of M . oryzae genes encoding CAZymes involved in the degradation of plant polysaccharides . We used a combination of quantitative real-time PCR , RNA sequencing , and enzymatic assays to identify the CAZymes that are up-regulated in response to various plant polysaccharides and to determine their functional roles in the degradation of plant biomass . Our results provide new insights into the regulatory mechanisms underpinning the metabolism of plant polysaccharides by M . oryzae . These data may be useful for understanding the molecular mechanisms of plant pathogenesis and for developing strategies to control plant diseases .', Keyword: '['biology', 'microbiology', 'microbial physiology', 'microbial genomics', 'microbial metabolism', 'microbial pathogenesis', 'microbial ecology', 'microbial evolution', 'microbial adaptation']', Lay Summary: 'Magnaporthe oryzae is a major pathogen of rice, causing significant yield losses and posing a threat to global food security . Despite the importance of this fungus, little is known about how it regulates its gene expression in response to various environmental stimuli . Here we report the results of a comprehensive analysis of the transcriptional regulation of M . oryzae genes encoding CAZymes involved in the degradation of plant polysaccharides . We used a combination of quantitative real-time PCR , RNA sequencing , and enzymatic assays to identify the
 Glandias is a highly infectious zoonotic disease caused by the gram-negative bacterium Buikholdia mallei . It is fatal to both animals and humans . The only known reservoirs of B . mallei are solipeds , particularly horses . Chronically infected horses can be asymptomatic but may remain highly infectious . As a highly infectious agent that can be transmitted by aerosol , causing invasive fatal disease in combination with resistance to multiple antibiotics , B . mallei is listed as a category B bio-threat agent by the CDC . Licensed vaccines against the disease do not exist . Antibiotic treatment is curbersome and requires the combination of at least two different antibiotics over several weeks . Throughout the western world , glandias has been erradicated through large scale culling of infected animals . In developing countries , however , economic and cultural circumstances may hinder culling of asymptomatic animals and enable the persistence of glandias . In recent years , several outbreaks of glandias occurred in the horse populations in Asia , Middle-East ( Afghanistan , Kuwait , Iran , Iraq , Pakistan , Syria ) , Africa , and South America ( Brazil ) . Because of the recent rise in cases in multiple countries , glandias has regained the status of a re-emerging disease . Officially , Bahrain was free of glandias until an outbreak in the north ( Jannururur , Shakhuhar and Saa municipalities ) that began in April 2010 . Horses imported from Syria via Kuwait were suspected of introducing glandias and all equines in the area were quarantined and tested . By September 2010 , the outbreak was considered to be resolved . However , in January 2011 the disease reoccurred in the same region of the country . Details on the outbreak are provided by the OIE ( http://www . oie . int/wahis_2/public/wahid . php/Wahidhome/Home ) . More than 6 , 700 horses and 250 donkeys ( 100% of the equine population in this region , representing about 80% of the total horse and donkey population in Bahrain ) as well as three camels presenting with clinical symptoms were screened for glandias at OIE Reference Laboratory , the Central Veterinary Research Laboratory in Dubai , United Arab Emirates using prescribed Complement Fixation Testing ( CFT ) and an in-house cELISA [7] . In these investigations , 50 horses and one camel tested positive . B . mallei was isolated from eight horses and the single , positive camel . Using B . mallei-specific real-time PCR and high resolution MLVA typing , we showed recently that the strain from the camel was genetically closely related to B . mallei strain Dubai 7 that was isolated from a horse during the contained outbreak of glandias in a quarantine station in the United Arab Emirates in 2004 [8] . In this current study , we characterize various B . mallei isolates from both events ( the 2004 UAE outbreak and the 2010–'11 Bahrain outbreak ) , using MLVA and next-generation whole genome sequencing . Our results provide evidence that the recent outbreak in Bahrain was caused by two different B . mallei strains , suggesting two independent introductions . ', Keyword: '['zoonoses', 'zoonotic diseases', 'zoonotic agents', 'zoonotic infections', 'zoonotic pathogens', 'zoonotic diseases', 'zoonotic agents', 'zoonotic infections', 'zoonotic pathogens', 'zoonotic diseases', 'zoonotic agents', 'zoonotic infections', 'zoonotic pathogens', 'zoonotic diseases', 'zoonotic agents', 'zoonotic infections', 'zoonotic pathogens', 'zoonotic diseases', 'zoonotic agents', 'zoonotic infections', 'zoonotic pathogens', 'zoonotic diseases', 'zoonotic agents', 'zoonotic infections', 'zoonotic pathogens', 'zoonotic diseases', 'zoonotic agents', 'zoonotic infections', 'zoonotic pathogens', 'zoonotic diseases', 'zoonotic agents', 'zoonotic infections', 'zoonotic pathogens', 'zoonotic diseases', 'zoonotic agents', 'zoonotic infections', 'zoonotic pathogens',
 The immune system is traditionally divided into innate and adaptive entities . In the present study , we describe a linkage between TLR4 and FcγRIII pathways in vitro and in vivo . Most strikingly , in vitro activation of phagocytes by IgGIC resulted in an association of TLR4 with FcγRIII based on co-immunoprecipitation analyses . Neutrophils from TLR4 mut mice were unresponsive to either LPS or IgGIC in vitro , as determined by cytokine production . This phenomenon was accompanied by the inability to phosphorylate tyrosine residues within immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs ( ITAMs ) of the FcRγ-subunit . To transfer these findings in vivo , two different models of acute lung injury ( ALI ) induced by intratracheal administration of either LPS or IgGIC were employed . As expected , LPS-induced ALI was abolished in TLR4 mut and TLR4−/− mice . Unexpectedly , TLR4 mut and TLR4−/− mice were also resistant to development of ALI following IgGIC deposition in the lungs . In conclusion , our findings suggest that TLR4 and FcγRIII pathways are structurally and functionally connected at the receptor level and that TLR4 is indispensable for FcγRIII signaling via FcRγ-mediated effector functions . ', Abstract: 'The immune system is traditionally divided into innate and adaptive entities . In the present study , we describe a linkage between TLR4 and FcγRIII pathways in vitro and in vivo . Most strikingly , in vitro activation of phagocytes by IgGIC resulted in an association of TLR4 with FcγRIII based on co-immunoprecipitation analyses . Neutrophils from TLR4 mut mice were unresponsive to either LPS or IgGIC in vitro , as determined by cytokine production . This phenomenon was accompanied by the inability to phosphorylate tyrosine residues within immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs ( ITAMs ) of the FcRγ-subunit . To transfer these findings in vivo , two different models of acute lung injury ( ALI ) induced by intratracheal administration of either LPS or IgGIC were employed . As expected , LPS-induced ALI was abolished in TLR4 mut and TLR4−/− mice . Unexpectedly , TLR4 mut and TLR4−/− mice were also resistant to development of ALI following IgGIC deposition in the lungs . In conclusion , our findings suggest that TLR4 and FcγRIII pathways are structurally and functionally connected at the receptor level and that TLR4 is indispensable for FcγRIII signaling via FcRγ-mediated effector functions . ', Introduction: 'The immune system is traditionally divided into innate and adaptive entities . In the present study , we describe a linkage between TLR4 and FcγRIII pathways in vitro and in vivo . Most strikingly , in vitro activation of phagocytes by IgGIC resulted in an association of TLR4 with FcγRIII based on co-immunoprecipitation analyses . Neutrophils from TLR4 mut mice were unresponsive to either LPS or IgGIC in vitro , as determined by cytokine production . This phenomenon was accompanied by the inability to phosphorylate tyrosine residues within immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activation motifs ( ITAMs ) of the FcRγ-subunit . To transfer these findings in vivo , two different models of acute lung injury ( ALI ) induced by intratracheal administration of either LPS or IgGIC were employed . As expected , LPS-induced ALI was abolished in TLR4 mut and TLR4−/− mice . Unexpectedly , TLR4 mut and TLR4−/− mice were also resistant to development of ALI following IgGIC deposition in the lungs . In conclusion , our findings suggest that TLR4 and FcγRIII pathways are structurally and functionally connected at the receptor level and that TLR4 is indispensable for FcγRIII signaling via FcRγ-mediated
 This study presents a novel coarse-graining strategy for simulating self-avoiding polymers on a lattice. The strategy allows for a drastic reduction in computation time while maintaining the same topological regime and preserving the correct structural and dynamical properties. We applied this strategy to investigate the role of epigenomic-driven interactions in the folding and dynamics of drosophila genome. Our results show that epigenomic-driven interactions play an important role in the folding and dynamics of chromatin. The strategy presented here can be used to develop efficient coarse-grained null models for chromosomes and to study the dynamics of long polymers during an extended time period.
 This study examines the role of lipid droplets (LD) in the intracellular development of the parasite Toxoplasma gondii. The authors show that Toxoplasma infection leads to an increase in host LD formation and that the parasite internalizes host LD into its own PV. The authors also show that host LD lipid content and lipolytic activities are important for the parasite's development in mammalian cells. The study provides morphological evidence that Toxoplasma internalizes host LD into the PV and salvages their lipid content for incorporation into membranes or, in case of excess, storage in its own LD. The authors suggest that the parasite may be using host LD as a source of lipids for its own development.
 'The Bone Morphophyetic Protein ( BMP ) signaling pathway is used repeatedly throughout development to regulate a diverse array of processes . One of the major conserved roles of the BMP pathway is to specify the dorsal-ventral axis patterning during embryonic dorsal-ventral axis patterning . In Drosophila , a heterodimer of the BMP signaling molecules , Decapterarger ( Dpp ) and Screw ( Scw ) , forms a gradient in order to pattern the dorsal ectoderm of the embryo into dorsal epidhemis and amnioshara fates . Dpp-Scw signaling through a Thickveins ( Tkv ) , Punt and Saxophone receptor complex results in phosphorylation of the C-terminal tail of the Mothers Against Dpp ( Mad ) transcription factor ( pMad ) , which then interacts with Med ( Med ) , leading to their stabilization in the nucleus . We incorporate our findings into a model for Mad-dependent activation , and discuss its relevance to BMP signal interpretation in vetebrtes .', Abstract: 'The BMP signaling pathway has a conserved role in dorsal-ventral axis patterning during embryonic dorsal-ventral axis patterning . In Drosophila , a heterodmi of the BMP signaling molecules , Decapthapγ ( Dpp ) and Screw ( Scw ) , forms a gradient in order to pattern the dorsal ectoderm of the embryo into dorsal epidhemis and amnioshsha fates . Dpp-Scw signaling through a Thickveins ( Tkv ) , Punt and Saxophone receptor complex results in phosphorylation of the C-terminal tail of the Mothers Against Dpp ( Mad ) transcription factor ( pMad ) , which then interacts with Med ( Med ) , leading to their stabilization in the nucleus . We incorporate our findings into a model for Mad-dependent activation , and discuss its relevance to BMP signal interpretation in vertebrtes .', Keyword: '['developmental biology', 'genetics and genomics', 'regulatory proteins', 'dna-binding proteins', 'animals', 'invertebrate genomics', 'model organisms', 'materials science', 'transcription factors', 'embryos', 'drosophila', 'research and analysis methods', 'embryology', 'proteins', 'gene expression', 'materials by attribute', 'dpp signaling cascade', 'insects', 'animal genomics', 'arthropoda', 'biochemistry', 'signal transduction', 'cell biology', 'genetics', 'biology and life sciences', 'physical sciences', 'genomics', 'cell signaling', 'bmp signaling', 'signaling cascades']', Lay Summary: 'The BMP signaling pathway has a conserved role in dorsal-ventral axis patterning during embryonic dorsal-ventral axis patterning . In Drosophila , a heterdmi of the BMP signaling molecules , Decapthapγ ( Dpp ) and Screw ( Scw ) , forms a gradient in order to pattern the dorsal ectoderm of the embryo into dorsal epidhris and amnioshsha fates . Dpp-Scw signaling through a Thickveins ( Tkv ) , Punt and Saxophone receptor complex results in phosphorylation of the C-terminal tail of the Mothers Against Dpp ( Mad ) transcription factor ( pMad ) , which then interacts with Med ( Med ) , leading to their stabilization in the nucleus . We incorporate our findings into a model for Mad-dependent activation , and discuss its relevance to BMP signal interpretation in vetebrtes .'], Introduction: 'The BMP signaling pathway has a conserved role in dorsal-ventral axis pattyning during embryonic dorsal-ventral axis patterning . In Drosophila , a heterdmi of the BMP signaling molecules , Decartharγ ( Dpp ) and Screw ( Scw ) , forms a gradient in order to pattern the dorsal ectoderm of the embryo into dorsal epichris and amnioshsha fates . Dpp-Scw signaling through a Thickveins ( Tkv ) , Punt and Saxophone receptor complex results in phosphory
 'Proteomics and expression profiling have been widely applied to understand the cellular processes [1] . Proteins with significant changes in expression have particular interest as markers for various diseases and cellular phenotypes [2] . While there are useful information encoded in the list of differentially expressed proteins , identifying the molecular mechanism of cellular processes from the long list of candidate proteins is challenging [3] . Data-integrative approaches have been successfully applied to address the challenge of interpreting lists of differentially expressed proteins by mapping them onto the protein functional network [4] , [5] . A protein functional network describes the functional and physical associations among proteins and provides a framework for understanding how individual protein work together to perform critical cellular functions and how protein compositions respond to changes in cellular environments [6] . Proteins rarely act alone but rather interact with other proteins and comprise specific functional modules in the network [7] . Such module is the building block of cellular organization and carries out unique biological process [9] . Therefore , compiling a comprehensive list of mt proteins is essential to understand mitochondrial biogenesis and pathology . Large-scale approaches such as mass spectrommetry ( MS ) -based proteomics [14] , epitope tagging combined with microscopy [15] , genome-wide predictions of protein subcellular localizations [16] , and comparative genomics analyses [17] , [18] , [19] have revealed the localization of the mt protein inventory . The mt protein inventory is dynamically changed depending on the cellular state , tissue type , and species [11] , [20] , [21] , [22] , [23] , [24] . For example , the compositions of mt proteins are different across various tissues and organs in mice [21] , [22] and changed by fementation states in yeast [18] or environmental stresses in plants [23] . Additionally , in humans , dynamic changes in the mt proteome affect the functional organizations of mt proteins and disease susceptibilities [24] . Genetic or biochemical abnormalities in mitochondria caused by complete or partial mtDNA depletion have been linked to a wide range of human diseases including metabolic syndrome , neurodegenerative disorders , mitochochymomy , and cancer [12] , [25] . We have previously reported that mtDNA depletion can lead to impairments of glucose metabolism [26] , insulin signaling [27] , and apoptosis [28] . However , the changes of the mt protein functional network in response to mt dysregulation remain to be revealed . Here , we investigated the systemic alterations of human mt protein functional network under normal and dysfunctional mt states through a data-integrative computational biology approach and quantitative proteomic analysis . Specifically , a systematic data-integrative analysis was devised to evaluate the reliability of human mt proteomics data and cluster the identified proteins into the modules of human mt protein functional network . Our results revealed that human mt proteins comprise specific network modules to control unique biological processes in cells exposed to dysfunctional mt states . Furthermore , network clusting suggests that cells respond to pathological conditions by modulating the coordinated expression and transport of human mt proteins . We believe that our results may provide critical information to gain better understanding of mitochochymomy function in the cell .', Keyword: '['biology/genetics and genomics/proteomics', 'biochemistry/cell signaling and trafficking structures', 'computational biology',' 'metabolic networks',' 'proteomics',' 'genetics and genomics']', Lay Summary: 'Proteomics and expression profiling have been widely applied to understand the cellular processes [1] . Proteins with significant changes in expression have particular interest as markers for various diseases and cellular phenotypes [2] . While there are useful information encoded in the list of differentially expressed proteins , identifying the molecular mechanism of cellular processes from the long list of candidate proteins is challenging [3] . Data-integrative approaches have been successfully applied to address the challenge of interpreting lists of differentially expressed proteins by mapping them onto the protein functional network [4] , [5] . A protein functional network describes the functional and physical associations among proteins and provides a framework for understanding how individual protein work together to perform critical cellular functions and how protein compositions respond to changes in cellular environments [6] . Proteins rarely act alone but rather interact with other proteins and comprise specific functional modules in the network [7] . Such module is the building
 The thioredoxin (Trx) superfamily of proteins plays a crucial role in redox regulation in many organisms. The activation of Trx by its endogenous substrate, the thioredoxin-coupled ashencysteine reductase (ArsC), is a key step in the redox regulation of Trx. However, the mechanism of activation of Trx by ArsC is not well understood. In this study, we used a combination of molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, pKa calculations, and reactivity analysis to investigate the activation of Trx by ArsC. We found that the activation of Trx by ArsC is a result of the formation of a mixed disulfide complex between Trx and ArsC. The mixed disulfide complex dissociates into two Trx molecules and one ArsC molecule, with the Trx molecules being activated by the ArsC molecule. The activation of Trx by ArsC is a result of the regioselectivity of the disulfide exchange reaction, which is determined by the local softness of the sulfur atoms in the disulfide. The local softness is a function of the electron density of the highest occupied molecular orbital and the density of the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital when electrons are received. The activation of Trx by ArsC is a key step in the redox regulation of Trx, and our findings provide new insights into the mechanism of activation.
 We have comprehensively catalogued and meta-analyzed all published genetic association studies in Parkinson's disease ( PD ) to create a dedicated online resource, PDGene ( www . pdgene . org ) . This database provides a summary of all published genetic association studies in PD , including GWAS , and includes a continuously updated summary of the latest data on overlapping DNA sequence variants ( polymorphisms ). The database also provides a comprehensive account of all published data on sCR1 levels and mRNA expression levels of CR1 in PD patients . Our meta-analysis revealed 11 loci that showed a statistically very significant ( P<5×10−8; a . k . a . genome-wide significance ) association with risk for PD: BST1 , CCDC62/HIP1R , DGKQ/GAK , GBA , LRRK2 , MAPT , MCCC1/LAMP3 , PARK16 , SNCA , STK39 , SYT11/RAB25 . In addition and purely by data-mining , we identified one novel PD susceptibility locus in a gene called ITGA8 ( rs7077361 , P = 1 . 3×10−8 ) . We note that individuals with the most common recombinant haplotype harboring rs3849266*T in intron 21 and rs3737002*T in exon 26 ( encoding p . 1408Met of the York Yka+ antigen ) , presented twice higher susceptibility to leprosy ( OR = 2 . 43 , p = 0 . 017 ) . Paucibacillary patients with these variants presented lower sCR1 levels , thus reducing the anti-inflammatory response ( p = 0 . 040 and p = 0 . 046 , respectively ) . Furthermore , the most ancient haplotype increased susceptibility to the multibacillary clinical form ( OR = 3 . 04 , p = 0 . 01 ) and presented the intronic rs12034383*G allele , which was associated with higher gene expression ( p = 0 . 043 ) , probably increasing internalization of the parasite . Furthermore , there was an inverse correlation between the levels of sCR1 and mannose-binding lectin ( initiator molecule of the lectin pathway of complement , recognized by CR1 ) ( R = -0 . 52 , p = 0 . 007 ) . The results lead us to suggest a regulatory role for CR1 polymorphisms on mRNA and sCR1 levels , with haplotype-specific effects increasing susceptibility to leprosy , probably by enhancing parasite phagocytosis and inflammation .'; Abstract: 'Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae and M . lepromatosis that primarily affects the skin and peripheral nervous system , later reaching other organs and systems [17] . After being exposed to the pathogen , most of the individuals present resistance to infection . Those who develop the disease can fit within a broad clinical spectrum with two antagonistic poles , from paucibacillary tuberculoid to multibacillary lepromatous disease [9] . This clinical diversity relies on the quality of the immune response , which itself results from genetic variants of the host and environmental factors [10] . Genetic variants that reduce complement activation or complement-mediated recognition of opsonized elements may enhance resistance against pathogens that depend on phagocytosis to initiate infection , as mycobacteria . They may also decrease inflammation at skin and nerve injuries [18 , 19] . Indeed , several polymorphisms of genes of the complement system are associated with leprosy: MBL2 , ficolins ( FCN1 , FCN2 and FCN3 ) , the serine protease associated with them ( MASP2—mannose-binding lectin serine protease 2 ) and complement receptor 1 ( CR1 , also known as CD35 ) [10 , 20–24] . The entrance of mycobacteria into macrophages is mediated by CR1 , which binds C3b/C4b complement fragments deposited on opsonized bacteria [25] . CR1 is mainly expressed by erythrocytes , phagocytes , B and T cells , in membrane-bound
 The Lao People’s Democratic Republic ( Laos ) is a country in the Greater Mekong Subregion ( GMS ) , which is located in Southeast Asia . In 2 015 , the Lao government adopted a goal of eliminating malaria by 2030 . To achieve this goal , we conducted a cross-sectional field survey in Attapeu province , which borders Vietnam and Cambodia in the southern part of the Lao PDR ( Fig 1 ) , to investigate the prevalence of asymptomatic Plasmodium infections among the people in malaria-endemic villages , the distribution of the species of malaria parasites , and the risk factors of Plasmodium infections . We also evaluated the performance of our PCR technique in comparison to microscopy and RDTs . The prevalence of malaria in Attapeu province was 37 . 8 , which was the highest among all provinces in the Lao PDR . The dominant species was Plasmodium vivax ( 87 . 2% , 41/47 ) . Males and soldiers tended to be infected with malaria parasites whereas those with a history of multiple malaria episodes ( ≥3 times ) tended to be asymptomatic malaria carriers . These findings suggest the need to implement targeted elimination plans for vivax malaria that include measures to protect males and soldiers , who are at high risk of malaria infection . We also developed a bioinformatics pipeline for eliminating contamination as well as low-complexity genomic sequences in the draft genomes of eukaryotic pathogens . We applied this pipeline to identify and remove human , bacterial , archaeal , and viral sequences present in a comprehensive database of all sequenced eukaryotic pathogen genomes . We also removed low-complexity genomic sequences , another source of false positives . Using this pipeline , we produced a database of “clean” eukaryotic pathogen genomes for use with bioinformatics classification and analysis tools . We demonstrate that when attempting to find eukaryotic pathogens in metagenomic samples , the new database provides better sensitivity than one using the original genomes while offering a dramatic reduction in false positives .
 The study presented here is a comprehensive analysis of gene expression profiles from multiple organs isolated during coronary artery bypass grafting ( CABG ) in patients with coronary artery disease ( CAD ). The primary aim of the study was to identify functionally associated genes important for CAD development using a two-way clustering approach. In the first step, the algorithm processed all mRNA signals within one organ to define a number of tissue clusters. The individual genes of the tissue clusters are defined by the level of associations between mRNA signals across all patients. In the second step, the patients were clustered according to the mRNA signals within each tissue cluster to identify signals related to clinical phenotypes. The clinical endpoint was the extent of coronary atherosclerotic lesions as judged from the degree of coronary stenosis, measured by quantitative coronary angiography ( QCA ). A secondary hypothesis was to reveal the extent to which any tissue cluster related to coronary stenosis acted in isolation in one organ or across several organs. The study comprises 114 carefully characterized patients, including a compendium of 278 global gene-expression profiles from five CAD-relevant tissues isolated during CABG. Using a two-way clustering approach, we analyzed this compendium to test our main hypothesis that there are groups of functionally associated genes ( rather than individual genes ) of importance for CAD and to determine whether those groups of genes act in isolation in each tissue or across several tissues. The results of this study provide a comprehensive overview of the molecular activities that are associated with CAD development and may help identify new targets for therapeutic intervention.
 The amino acid asparagine is important not only for protein biosynthesis but also for nitrogen homeostasis. Asparagine synthetase catalyzes the synthesis of this amino acid. There are two forms of asparagine synthetase, A and B. The presence of type A in trypanosomes and its absence in humans makes this protein a potential drug target. Trypanosoma brucei and Trypanosoma cruzi type A enzymes are able to use either ammonia or glutamine as a nitrogen donor, within the conversion of aspartate into asparagine. Asparagine synthetase A knockdown renders Trypanosoma brucei auxotrophic to asparagine. Overall, this study demonstrates that interfering with asparagine metabolism represents a way to control parasite growth and infectivity.
 ' The evolution of swimming patterns in aquatic animals is a complex process that is influenced by a variety of factors, including the physical constraints of the environment and the biological constraints of developmental processes. The evolution of swimming patterns in aquatic animals has been studied extensively [13–17] but the mechanisms through which these animals evolved to swim with undulating fins remain unclear. Here , we present evidence that the Snail-related transcription factors CES-1 and CES-2 are involved in the evolution of swimming patterns in aquatic animals . We show that CES-1 and CES-2 can regulate cell cycle progression in the NSM lineage , which is a lineage of neuro-secretory motorneurons ( NSM , neuro-secretory motorneurons ) that divide asymmetrically along the ventral-lateral dorsal-medial axis to each generate a daughter cell of different size and different cell fate determination . The NSM lineage is characterized by the presence of a cell polarity defect , which is a loss of apico-basal polarity , and which is thought to contribute to the invasive behavior of certain types of tumor cells . The Snail-related transcription factors CES-1 and CES-2 are thought to repress the death of the NSM sister cells and the I2 sister cells , respectively , and hence , prevent the death of the NSM lineage . In ces-1 gf mutant animals , the level of CES-1 protein in the NSM lineage is elevated and this leads to the symmetric , random division of the NSM lineage . This results in the formation of two daughters of similar sizes , both of which contain CES-1 protein and , consequently , survive . We hypotheize a mechanical basis for this optimality and suggest reasons for its repeated emergence through evolution . We now present evidence that CES-1 and CES-2 can also regulate cell cycle progression in the NSM lineage . We show that CES-1 and CES-2 can functionally interact with core components of the cell cycle machinery , including the basic helterz , the basic helterz , the basic helterz , the basic helterz , the basic helthz , the basic helhrr , the basic helhrr , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh , the basic helh
 The study by Fraser et al. provides new insights into the mechanism of human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. The authors used chemical biology approaches to identify cell cycle inhibitors that block HPV infection. They found that cell cycle progression through early mitosis is critical for successful HPV infection. These findings reveal new insights into the mechanism by which HPV infects cells and provide one reason why HPV infects only undifferentiated, proliferating cells. These results also provide new leads for developing preventive and therapeutic strategies against HPV infection.
 The present study describes a novel molecular cause of orfacial clefting in humans and mice , and defines the first molecular basis for co triatriatum sininct in humans . The findings of this study illustrate the fundamental importance of hyaruronan ( HA ) turnover for normal human and mouse development . The study also provides a new molecular basis for co triatriatum dexinct in humans . The findings of this study may help to identify new therapeutic targets for the treatment of orfacial clefts and other congenital anomalies.
 The authors present a study on the effects of hypoxia on axon pathfinding in the developing zebrafish brain. They found that hypoxia causes pathfinding errors in certain interneurons and motorneurons by increasing the expression of the Eph receptor vab-1. They also identified a role for the hif1α pathway in this process and found that magnesium sulfate can help reduce the frequency of pathfinding errors. The study provides insights into the mechanisms underlying hypoxia-induced axon pathfinding errors in the developing brain and suggests that magnesium sulfate may be a potential therapeutic agent for preventing these errors.
 The study of the effects of Wolbachia depletion on the development, fertility, and viability of filarial nematodes has been limited to the observation of apoptosis in infected cells. Here, we used whole mount confocal microscopy to observe the consequences of Wolbachia depletion on host nematode cellular and nuclear structure. Our observations reveal an extensive and profound development of apoptosis in germline cells and embryos following antibiotic depletion of Wolbachia, which occurs soon after bacterial depletion in B. malayi and is sustained for at least 21 months in O. volvulus. We find extensive apoptosis even in cells that had not been infected with Wolbachia prior to antibiotic treatment. Nuclear structure in most somatic tissues remains intact, although disruption of cytoskeleton arrangement occurs in the lateral chord cells, where the vast majority of the bacteria reside. Our observations provide a cellular mechanism to account for the sustained reductions in microfilarial loads and interruption of transmission that occurs prior to macrofilaricidal activity following antibiotic therapy of filarial nematodes. These findings have important implications for the development of new anti-filarial therapies and the understanding of the mutualistic relationship between filarial nematodes and their endosymbionts.
 This study aimed to evaluate the performance of two commercial IgM tests (CTK lateral flow rapid test and EUROIMMUN IFA) and two in-house IgM ELISA assays (using CHIKV-A226 and CHIKV-226V) for the detection of IgM antibodies against Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) in two independent outbreaks caused by different CHIKV strains. The study also compared the sensitivity of two PCR protocols (probe-based real time RT-PCR and SYBR Green) for the detection of CHIKV RNA. The results showed that the EUROIMMUN IFA assay had the highest sensitivity for the detection of IgM antibodies against CHIKV in the first outbreak, while the CTK lateral flow rapid test had the highest sensitivity in the second outbreak. The probe-based real time RT-PCR protocol was found to be 10 times more sensitive than the SYBR Green protocol. The study highlights the importance of considering the specific strain of CHIKV when selecting diagnostic assays for the detection of IgM antibodies and RNA.
 The study of the mechanisms of genome stability and DNA repair is a fundamental aspect of developmental biology. In this study, we used a novel technique to identify the molecular identity of a gene required for the formation of the animal-vegetal axis in the oocyte of the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster. We found that the gene is a novel cytoskeletal linker protein, which we named Maghr1. Maghr1 is required for the formation of the animal-vegetal axis in the oocyte and for the proper localization of mitochondria and organelles in the oocyte cortex. We also found that Maghr1 is required for the proper localization of the oocyte nucleus and for the proper function of the oocyte nuclear envelope. Our results provide new insights into the mechanisms of genome stability and DNA repair in the oocyte of Drosophila melanogaster.
 Auditory streaming is a perceptual phenomenon where a complex sound is perceived as a sequence of simpler sounds. The perceptual organization of streaming is characterized by alternations between integrated and segregated percepts. We develop a neuromechanistic model of auditory streaming that reproduces the dynamics of alternations after the first perceptual switch. The model incorporates a tonotopic organization with three units assumed to be downstream and receive input from A1. Two peripheral units receive input from regions of A1 centred at locations with best frequencies A or B, and a third unit receives input from tonotopically intermediate A1 locations, say centred at (A + B)/2. The perceptual interpretations are classified through criteria on the firing patterns, for example, dominance of the central unit, receiving input via A1 from both the A and the B tones, corresponds to integrated. A dynamical systems framework is used with firing rate based neuronal competition mediated by mutual inhibition, adaptation, and noise. The inclusion of recurrent NMDA-like excitation allows for some neuronal memory that links each tone and each triplet to the next. We use the dominance duration distributions from our own experiments to constrain model parameters. We confirm that a generalization about parameter manipulations from visual bistability extends to the auditory case. We show that the model reproduces the experimental data well and that the assumptions underlying the model are supported.
 This study aimed to assess the potential of rhodamine B as a dual marking technique for male Ae . aegypti , including a Wolbachia-infected ( wMel ) strain due to recent releases of Wolbachia-infected Ae . aegypti and Ae . albopictus , for either its virus-blocking capabilities [26] , sterilization by cytoplasmic incompatibility [20] , or both [27] . Specifically , we report on a series of experiments with the goals of determining optimal feeding regimes for ideal body and seminal fluid marking , as well as any potential impacts of rhodamine B feeding on male survival and male mating competitiveness . We conclude by presenting results from proof-of-principle field releases .
 'Hematophagous mosquitos and ticks avoid host hemostatic system through expression of enzyme inhibitors targeting proteolytic reactions of the coagulation and complement cascades . While most inhibitors characterized to date were found in the salivary glands , relatively few others have been identified in the midgut . Among those , Boophilin is a 2-Kunitz multifunctional inhibitor targeting thrombin , elastase , and kallikrein . However , the kinetics of Boophilin interaction with these enzymes , how it modulates platelet function , and whether it inhibits thrombosis in vivo have not been determined . Boophilin was expressed in HEK293 cells and purified to homogeneity . Using amidolytic assays and surface plasmon resonance experiments , we have demonstrated that Boophilin behaves as a classical , non-competitive inhibitor of thrombin with respect to small chromogenic substrates by a mechanism dependent on both exosite-1 and catalytic site . Inhibition is accompanied by blockade of platelet aggregation , fibrin formation , and clot-bound thrombin in vitro . Notably , we also identified Boophilin as a non-competitive inhibitor of FXIa , preventing FIX activation . In addition , Boophilin inhibits kallikrein activity and the reciprocal activation , indicating that it targets the contact pathway . Furthermore , Boophilin inhibits carotid artery occlusion in vivo triggered by FeCl3 , and promotes bleeding according to the mice tail transection method . Through inhibition of several enzymes involved in proteolytic cascades and cell activation , Boophilin plays a major role in keeping the midgut microenvironment at low hemostatic and inflammatory tonus . This response allows ticks to successfully digest a blood meal which is critical for metabolism and egg development . Boophilin is the first tick midgut FXIa anticoagulant also found to inhibit thrombosis .'; Abstract: 'Hematophagous mosquitos and ticks are strict blood feeders , which express protease inhibitors in different tissues and organs . These molecules belong to the Kunitz , Kazal , Serpin , Cathepsin , and Trypsin Inhibitor-Like ( TIL ) -domains family of enzyme inhibitors , among others , and prevent hemostasis , inflammation and immune responses . Most of these inhibitors have been identified in the salivary glands of hematophagous animals . They display unique specificity and high-affinity binding for coagulation factors , or components of the complement cascade . Protease inhibitors also affect immune cells , endothelial cells and platelet functions [1–10] . Other reports have provided evidence for expression of protease inhibitors in the midgut of blood-sucking animals . Accordingly , midgut thrombin inhibitors have been identified in Ornithodorus moubatta ( onnithodin ) [11] , Haemaphysalis longicornis ( hemalin ) , Triatoma brasiliensis ( brasiliensin ) [12] , Dipetalogasta maxima ( dipetalogastin ) [13] and Rhodnius prolixus ( rhodniin ) . In addition , infestins family members from Triatoma infestans target thrombin , FXIIa or elastase and display antithrombotic activity in vivo [15–18] while rhiphilin-2 from Rhipicephalus hemaphysaloides inhibits elastase [19] . More recently , the two Kunitz-containing Boophilin from the tick Rhipicephalus microplus was found to block thrombin , but also interact with plasmin , elastase , kallikrein and Factor ( F ) VIIa [20 , 21] . The structure of Boophilin revealed that it inhibits thrombin in a non-canonical manner , despite possessing a canonical reactive site loop . Accordingly , residues in the N-terminal interacts with the catalytic site while the C-terminal Kunitz domain binds to the anion binding exosite-1 [20] . Functionally , RNAi silencing of Boophilin gene resulted in 20% less egg weight increase [21] . These results emphas
 The study of plant-pollinator networks has revealed that the structure of these networks is determined by a combination of ecological and evolutionary factors. In particular, the complementarity and barrier traits of plants and pollinators have been shown to play important roles in shaping the structure of these networks. However, the mechanisms underlying the evolution of these traits are not well understood. In this study, we used a combination of mathematical modeling and experimental approaches to investigate the evolution of complementarity and barrier traits in plant-pollinator networks. We found that the evolution of these traits is driven by a combination of ecological and evolutionary factors, including the availability of resources, competition for resources, and the effects of mutations on the fitness of individuals. Our results provide insights into the mechanisms underlying the evolution of plant-pollinator networks and suggest that these networks are shaped by a complex interplay of ecological and evolutionary factors.
 Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a severe and often fatal parasitic disease caused by Leishmania infantum that affects the internal organs of dogs and humans. The lack of effective drugs and vaccines for VL has led to the development of new screening methods for drug discovery. In this study, we used a novel in vivo screening platform based on the comparison of the phosphorylation profiles of two transgenic Leishmania infantum strains expressing different fluorescent proteins. The platform was validated by monitoring the development of an in vivo infection of VL in mice using fluorescent parasites. We identified a novel regulatory mechanism involving the phosphorylation of the transcription factor Fkh2 by two kinases, Cdc28-Ccn1/Cln3 and Cbk1-Mob2, which is required for the expression of hyphal-specific genes involved in pathogenesis. Our findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the morphological and transcriptional changes involved in the switch from commensalism to pathogenicity in Leishmania infantum.
 The study of sex ratio in Drosophila has been a longstanding topic of interest in evolutionary biology. Sex ratio is the ratio of males to females in a population, and it can be influenced by genetic factors. In Drosophila, sex ratio is determined by the X chromosome, which carries a sex-determining gene called sex-ratio. The sex-ratio gene is responsible for the production of a protein that regulates the segregation of chromosomes during meiosis, leading to an imbalance in the number of males and females in the offspring. In this study, we used a combination of genetic and molecular techniques to characterize the sex-ratio gene in Drosophila. We found that the sex-ratio gene is located on the X chromosome and is responsible for the production of a protein that regulates the segregation of chromosomes during meiosis. We also found that the sex-ratio gene is highly conserved across different species of Drosophila, suggesting that it has an important role in the evolution of sex ratio. Our findings provide new insights into the mechanisms underlying sex ratio in Drosophila and may have implications for understanding the evolution of sex ratio in other species.
 'The variants of human influenza virus have caused , and will continue to be a significant threat to public health[\1] . There are three types of seasonal influenza – A , B and C . Among them , influenza H1N1 and H3N2 of type A and type B are currently circulating frequently in the human population . During evolution , many variants of influenza virus with distinct antigenic properties have emerged either by mutation or reassšoo of the gene encoding the viral coat protein hegarhrurrih [2] . These antigenic variants have caused mobidity and mortality with varying magnitude[3] , [4] . If the mortality burden of a newly emerged virus can be estimated accurately and in time , this knowledge will be extremely valuable not only for public preparedness for an impending epidemic/pandemic but also for the health authorities to develop cost-effective control and intervention strategies . In epidemiology , investigators usually rely on the surveillance data to assess the impact of an influenza virus on human death by estimating its case fatiety ratio( CFR ) , the ratio of the number of deaths caused by the virus to the number of the diagnosed cases of the virus infection[5] , and the excess mortality it causes[6] , [7] . However , accurate prediction of the influenza mortality burden for new seasonal strains should be extremely challenging , because the mobidity and mortality data for early influenza surveillance are very limited and prone to bias as well[5] . If the mortality burden ofa newly emerged virus can be estimated accurately and in time , this knowledge will be extremely valuable not only for public preparedness foran impending epidemic/pandemic but also for the health authorities to develop cost-effective control and intervention strategies . In this study , based on the vial and mortality data of influenza in the USA and by using the excess all-cause mortality to represent the impact of influenza epidemics on human death[6] , we describe our work on how to establish a positive correlation between the antigenic variation of human influenza virus and the total excess mortality it causes during all periods of its circulation . The established relationship has further enabled us to develop a method to rapidly estimate the mortality burden of influenza A ( H1N1 ) virus by accurately predicting the antigenic distance between A ( H1N1 ) strains based on their HA sequences . ', Keyword: '['biology', 'microbiology', 'host-pathogen interaction',' 'immune cells', 'viral transmission and infection',' 'antigen-presenting cells',' 'immune defense',' 'immunology',' 'host cells',' 'cell biology',' 'immunity',' 'viral immune evasion',' 'molecular cell biology']', Lay Summary: 'The variants of human influenza virus have caused , and will continue to be a significant threat to public health[\1] . There are three types of seasonal influenza – A , B and C . Among them , influenza H1N1 and H3N2 of type A and type B are currently circulating frequently in the human population . During evolution , many variants ofinflenza virus with distinct antigenic properties have emerged either by mutation or reassʃoo ofthe gene encoding the viral coat protein hegarhruhrrih [2] . These antigenic variants have caused mobidity and mortality with varying magnitude[3] , [4] . If the mortality burden ofa newly emerged virus can be estimated accurately and in time , this knowledge will be extremely valuable not only for public preparedness foran impending epidemic/pandamic but also for the health authorities to develop cost-effective control and intervention strategies . In epidemiology , investigators usually rely on the surveillance data to assess the impact of an influenza virus on human death by estimating its CFR ratio , the ratio of the number of deaths caused by the virus to the number of the diagnosed cases of the virus infection[5] , and the excess mortality it causes[6] , [7] . However , accurate prediction of the influenza mortality burden for new seasonal strains should be extremely challenging , because the mobidity and mortality data for early influenza surveillance are very limited and prone to bias as well[5] . If the mortality burden ofa newly emerged virus can be estimated accurately and in time , this knowledge will be extremely valuable not only for public preparedness foran impending epidemic/pandamic but also for the health authorities to develop cost-effective control and intervention strategies . In this study , based on the viar andμory data of influenza in the USA and by using the excess all-cause mortality to represent the impact of influenza epid
 In this study , we investigated the dynamics of pattern formation in the developing molar row of mouse embryos. We show that the first molar ( M1 ) forms from a signaling center that is initially broadly expressed in Eda , the receptor of the Eda pathway . Eda expression is then down-regulated in the neighborhood , while the signaling center itself becomes up-regulated . This is consistent with the dynamics of hair pattern formation , where Eda expression is initially broadly expressed in the placodal signaling center , then down-regulated in the neighborhood , while the signaling center itself becomes up-regulated [12 , 45 , 46] . We also show that Eda expression is dispensable for the formation of the second molar ( M2 ) , but is required for the formation of a fused R2–M1 signaling center in the lower jaw . This is consistent with the dynamics of hair pattern formation , where Eda is dispensable for the formation of the second hair field , but is required for the formation of a fused hair field [12 , 45 , 46] . We built a mathematical model of molar pattern formation that explains the rescue of the abortive R2 bud in the inhibitory context of Eda loss of function . We reveal that a newly formed organizing center can actively impair or errase a previously formed one . We call this phenomenon a developmental “palimpsest , ” from the terminology of old manuscripts that were scraped to be reused again . This indirect developmental process likely reflects the evolutionary history of mice , which lost premolars while maintaining their embryonic organizing centers . More broadly , we believe that overwriting or correcting previously established patterns during development might be more common than anticipated , simply due to the fact that developmental programs are modified by incrementation during evolution . The observations reported in this paper should be useful in further studies of the interactions between signaling centers to different species of Leishmania parasites , and of the mechanisms involved in the recognition and fusion of PVs .
 The structure of dissociated pentamers of FMDV and an icosahedral assembly of these pentamers have been determined using cryo-electron microscopy. The pentamers are composed of VP1-3 and lack VP4. The structure of the pentamers is similar to that of the mature virus, but with a small rotation of VP3. The pentamers associate 'inside out' to form the icosahedral assembly, with VP1 surrounding the 5-fold axes of symmetry and VP2 and VP3 alternating around the 2-fold axes. The structure of the dissociated pentamers provides insight into the mechanism of dissociation of FMDV and the exposed hydrophobic edges of the pentamers. The structure of the icosahedral assembly provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV particle formation and the stabilizing interactions between the pentamers. The structure of the dissociated pentamers also provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV uncoating and the exposed hydrophobic edges of the pentamers. The structure of the icosahedral assembly provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV particle formation and the stabilizing interactions between the pentamers. The structure of the dissociated pentamers also provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV uncoating and the exposed hydrophobic edges of the pentamers. The structure of the icosahedral assembly provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV particle formation and the stabilizing interactions between the pentamers. The structure of the dissociated pentamers also provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV uncoating and the exposed hydrophobic edges of the pentamers. The structure of the icosahedral assembly provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV particle formation and the stabilizing interactions between the pentamers. The structure of the dissociated pentamers also provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV uncoating and the exposed hydrophobic edges of the pentamers. The structure of the icosahedral assembly provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV particle formation and the stabilizing interactions between the pentamers. The structure of the dissociated pentamers also provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV uncoating and the exposed hydrophobic edges of the pentamers. The structure of the icosahedral assembly provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV particle formation and the stabilizing interactions between the pentamers. The structure of the dissociated pentamers also provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV uncoating and the exposed hydrophobic edges of the pentamers. The structure of the icosahedral assembly provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV particle formation and the stabilizing interactions between the pentamers. The structure of the dissociated pentamers also provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV uncoating and the exposed hydrophobic edges of the pentamers. The structure of the icosahedral assembly provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV particle formation and the stabilizing interactions between the pentamers. The structure of the dissociated pentamers also provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV uncoating and the exposed hydrophobic edges of the pentamers. The structure of the icosahedral assembly provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV particle formation and the stabilizing interactions between the pentamers. The structure of the dissociated pentamers also provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV uncoating and the exposed hydrophobic edges of the pentamers. The structure of the icosahedral assembly provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV particle formation and the stabilizing interactions between the pentamers. The structure of the dissociated pentamers also provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV uncoating and the exposed hydrophobic edges of the pentamers. The structure of the icosahedral assembly provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV particle formation and the stabilizing interactions between the pentamers. The structure of the dissociated pentamers also provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV uncoating and the exposed hydrophobic edges of the pentamers. The structure of the icosahedral assembly provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV particle formation and the stabilizing interactions between the pentamers. The structure of the dissociated pentamers also provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV uncoating and the exposed hydrophobic edges of the pentamers. The structure of the icosahedral assembly provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV particle formation and the stabilizing interactions between the pentamers. The structure of the dissociated pentamers also provides insight into the mechanism of FMDV un
 The study by Liu et al. presents a comprehensive analysis of the role of the protein Lingerer (Lig) in the regulation of cell proliferation in Drosophila. The authors identify Lig as a novel interaction partner of the RNA-binding proteins Fragile X mental retardation protein 1 (FMR1), Rasputin (Rin) and Caprin (Capr). They show that Lig is required for normal growth and development in Drosophila, and that it interacts with FMR1, Rin and Capr to regulate cell proliferation. The authors also identify a novel PTMi spot in Lig, which is enriched for multiple PTMs. They propose that Lig is a key component of a protein complex that regulates cell proliferation, and that it is involved in the regulation of multiple PTMs. The study provides important insights into the mechanisms of cell proliferation regulation in Drosophila, and highlights the importance of PTMs in this process.
 This study aimed to investigate whether households are important foci of DENV infection in highly urban Ho Chi Minh City , Vietnam . In this study , we show that people living close to a dengue case in HCMC were in fact no more likely to be infected with dengue over a two week period than controls who did not live near a dengue case , although they were two times more likely to have evidence of a recent dengue infection at enrollment . This suggests that dengue risk might cluster around households in this setting , but that responsive insecticide spraying around the homes of reported cases is unlikely to prevent many additional infections . Our results suggest that the secondary channel is the major route for NTP entry during Pol II elongation .
 This study investigates the influence of contextual inputs on visual perception and inference. We used a yes–no task to probe the bias in inferring the presence of a target bar in an input image. The results revealed that weaker contextual inputs induce stronger biases to fill-in the missing target. We propose a Bayesian model to account for these findings and discuss its implications.
 Bacteriophages are viruses that infect and kill bacteria. They are important for controlling bacterial populations and are used in medicine as antibacterial agents. Bacteriophages are highly diverse and can be grouped into families based on shared features. The T4 family of bacteriophages is one of the most studied and is used in medicine. The T4 family is composed of several subfamilies, including the T4mei4 subfamily. The T4mei4 subfamily is characterized by a unique feature: the presence of a meiotic recombination protein, HEI10, which is required for meiotic recombination in yeast. The T4mei4 subfamily is also characterized by the presence of a conserved region, the MMR domain, which is required for meiotic recombination in yeast. The MMR domain is composed of two subdomains, the MMR1 and MMR2 subdomains. The MMR1 subdomain is required for meiotic recombination in yeast, while the MMR2 subdomain is required for meiotic recombination in yeast and for the formation of synaptonemal complexes (SCs). The MMR1 and MMR2 subdomains are highly conserved among T4mei4 subfamily members. The T4mei4 subfamily is also characterized by the presence of a conserved region, the MMR domain, which is required for meiotic recombination in yeast. The MMR domain is composed of two subdomains, the MMR1 and MMR2 subdomains. The MMR1 subdomain is required for meiotic recombination in yeast, while the MMR2 subdomain is required for meiotic recombination in yeast and for the formation of synaptonemal complexes (SCs). The MMR1 and MMR2 subdomains are highly conserved among T4mei4 subfamily members. The T4mei4 subfamily is also characterized by the presence of a conserved region, the MMR domain, which is required for meiotic recombination in yeast. The MMR domain is composed of two subdomains, the MMR1 and MMR2 subdomains. The MMR1 subdomain is required for meiotic recombination in yeast, while the MMR2 subdomain is required for meiotic recombination in yeast and for the formation of synaptonemal complexes (SCs). The MMR1 and MMR2 subdomains are highly conserved among T4mei4 subfamily members. The T4mei4 subfamily is also characterized by the presence of a conserved region, the MMR domain, which is required for meiotic recombination in yeast. The MMR domain is composed of two subdomains, the MMR1 and MMR2 subdomains. The MMR1 subdomain is required for meiotic recombination in yeast, while the MMR2 subdomain is required for meiotic recombination in yeast and for the formation of synaptonemal complexes (SCs). The MMR1 and MMR2 subdomains are highly conserved among T4mei4 subfamily members. The T4mei4 subfamily is also characterized by the presence of a conserved region, the MMR domain, which is required for meiotic recombination in yeast. The MMR domain is composed of two subdomains, the MMR1 and MMR2 subdomains. The MMR1 subdomain is required for meiotic recombination in yeast, while the MMR2 subdomain is required for meiotic recombination in yeast and for the formation of synaptonemal complexes (SCs). The MMR1 and MMR2 subdomains are highly conserved among T4mei4 subfamily members. The T4mei4 subfamily is also characterized by the presence of a conserved region, the MMR domain, which is required for meiotic recombination in yeast. The MMR domain is composed of two subdomains, the MMR1 and MMR2 subdomains. The MMR1 subdomain is required for meiotic recombination in yeast, while the MMR2 subdomain is required for meiotic recombination in yeast and for the formation of synaptonemal complexes (SCs). The MMR1 and MMR2 subdomains are highly conserved among T4mei4 subfamily members. The T4mei4 subfamily is also characterized by the presence of a conserved region, the MMR domain, which is required for
 This study investigates the evolution of genomic GC-content in bacteria. The authors find that there is a large excess of synonymous GC→AT mutations over AT→GC mutations segregating in all but the most AT-rich bacteria, across a broad range of phylogenetically diverse species. They conclude that there is selection to increase synonymous GC-content in many species, since synonymous GC-content is highly correlated to genomic GC-content. The authors suggest that this selection may be due to functional constraints, such as translational selection or biased gene conversion, but they cannot exclude the possibility that mutation bias plays a role. The authors also discuss the implications of their findings for understanding the evolution of bacterial genomes.
 The study of Huntington's disease (HD) has been greatly advanced by the use of transgenic mouse models. In this study, the authors used two different HD transgenic mouse lines, R6/1 and R6/2, to investigate the relationship between chromatin structure, transcription, and tissue-selective somatic CAG instability. They found that the HD transgene was integrated in a more euchromatinized and transcriptionally active region in R6/2 mice than in R6/1 mice. Additionally, they observed that H3K36 trimethylation and elongating RNA Pol II were increased at the HD locus in the striatum of both R6/1 and R6/2 mice. These findings suggest that transcription elongation mediates tissue-specific somatic CAG instability in HD. The authors conclude that their study provides new insights into the mechanisms underlying tissue-selective somatic CAG instability in HD.
 In this study, we used a mouse model to investigate the role of the amino acid at position 627 of the PB2 viral protein in efficient replication of H5N1 viruses in the mammalian respiratory tract. We found that viruses possessing Lys at position 627 of PB2 replicated efficiently in lungs and nasal turbinates, as well as in cells, even at the lower temperature of 33 °C. Those viruses possessing Glu at this position replicated less well in nasal turbinates than in lungs, and less well in cells at the lower temperature. These results suggest that Lys at PB2–627 confers to avian H5N1 viruses the advantage of efficient growth in the upper and lower respiratory tracts of mammals. Therefore, efficient viral growth in the upper respiratory tract may provide a platform for the adaptation of avian H5N1 influenza viruses to humans and for efficient person-to-person virus transmission, in the context of changes in other viral properties including specificity for human (sialic acid α-2 , 6-galactose) receptors.
 Chagas disease is a vector-borne disease caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi , which is transmitted to humans primarily by triatomine vectors . Several regional initiatives in the Americas have successfully controlled domiciliated triatomine vectors by residual insecticide spraying and/or housing improvement , resulting in a large reduction in house infestation by triatomines and a corresponding reduction in Chagas disease transmission to humans . However , it has become increasingly clear that several triatomine species do not establish permanent domestic colonies , but can occasionally infest domestic habitats by immigration from peridomestic and/or sylvatic habitats . Mathematical modelling has revealed that dispersal is the dominant parameter involved in this infestation process , while demography is of secondary importance . Insecticide spraying has a short-lived effect on house infestation in the case of recurring infestation by immigrating peridomestic and/or sylvatic bugs , as we observed in a previous field study on T . dimidiata vector control in the Yucatan peninsula . Insecticide spraying has a rather short-lived effect on house infestation in the case of recurring infestation by immigrating peridomestic and/or sylvatic bugs , as we observed in a previous field study on T . dimidiata vector control in the Yucatan peninsula . It is thus of key importance to improve and optimize the efficacy of current insecticide spraying strategies to cope with ( re ) infestation by non-domiciliated vectors and to investigate the potential of alternative strategies such as insect screens or bednets . This can be achieved by empirical field trials , but this costly approach is limited in the number of control strategies that can be evaluated and the follow-up time required . Alternatively , the use of mathematical modelling has proven to be a very efficient approach to explore control strategies in a variety of contexts and diseases [32]–[35] . Although some modelling studies have investigated vector population dynamics [16] , [17] , [32] , [36] and Chagas disease transmission [37] , very few have attempted to optimize control strategies [32] and none focused on non-domiciliated vectors , most likely because of the lack of estimates of the required population parameters in this situation [24] , [26] . In the present contribution , we use a combination of field and modelling studies to evaluate the efficacy of several strategies for the control of seasonal infestation by non-domiciliated triatomine populations . We took advantage of one of the best documented case of non-domiciliated triatomine vector; the populations of T . dimidiata in the Yucatan peninsula , Mexico . Our modelling shows that the control of non-domiciliated vectors can hardly be achieved by insecticide spraying , but that insect screens may offer an effective and sustainable alternative .'], Keyword: '['infectious diseases/neglected tropical diseases', 'public health and epidemiology/infectious diseases', 'infectious diseases/epidemiology and control of infectious diseases']', Lay Summary: [/INST] Chagas disease is a vector-borne disease caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi , which is transmitted to humans primarily by triatomine vectors . Several regional initiatives in the Americas have successfully controlled domiciliated triatomine vectors by residual insecticide spraying and/or housing improvement , resulting in a large reduction in house infestation by triatomines and a corresponding reduction in Chagas disease transmission to humans . However , it has become increasingly clear that several triatomine species do not establish permanent domestic colonies , but can occasionally infest domestic habitats by immigration from peridomestic and/or sylvatic habitats . Mathematical modelling has revealed that dispersal is the dominant parameter involved in this infestation process , while demography is of secondary importance . Insecticide spraying has a short-lived effect on house infestation in the case of recurring infestation by immigrating peridomestic and/or sylvatic bugs , as we observed in a previous field study on T . dimidiata vector control in the Yucatan peninsula . Insecticide spraying has a rather short-lived effect on house infestation in the case of recurring infestation by immigrating peridomestic and/or sylvatic bugs , as we observed in a previous field study on T . dimidiata vector control in the Yucatan peninsula . It is thus of key importance to improve and optimize the efficacy of current insecticide spraying strategies to cope with
 'The weight of a specific outcome feature cont (i) ) quantifies a person’s preference for that feature , and the degree of change in preference(i) ) is a function of oftau(i) , the degree of uncertainty in the person’s preferences , and the relevance of social information . We hypothesised that people can be uncertain about their preferences , and that this uncertainty can be reduced by Bayesian updating . We also hypothesised that thattau(i) ) = \tau(i) , the degree of preference change in a person’s choice , and the relevance of social information , which we assume to be highly available and accessible to the person . We tested our ideas in on[\14–24] , a large community study of 14–24 year olds , and a prospective study of 14–24 year olds , which included a retrospective series of 14–24 year olds . We found that people could be uncertain about their preferences , and that this uncertainty could be reduced by Bayesian updating . We also found that thattau(i) ) = \tau(i) , the degree of preference change in a person’s choice , and the relevance of social information , which we assume to be highly available and accessible to the person . We hypothesised that people could be unsure about their preferences , and that this uncertainty could be reduced by Bayesian updating . We also hypothesised that thattau(i) ) = \tau(i) , the degree of preference change ina person’s choice , and the relevance of social information , which we assume to be highly available and accessible to the person . We tested our ideas in on[[14–24] , a large community study of 14–24 year olds , and a prospective study of \14–24 year olds , which included a retrospective series of 14–24 year olds , who were enrolled in a prospective study of 14–24 year olds , and a prospective study of \14–24 year olds , which included a retrospective series of 14–24 year olds , who were enrolled\[\14–24\] ] , and a prospective study of \14–24 year olds , which included a retrospective series of 14–24 year olds , who were enrolled\[\14–24\] ] , and a prospective study of \14–24 year olds , which included a retrospective series of 14–24 year olds , who were enrolled\[\14–24\] ] , and a prospective study of \14–24 year olds , which included a retrospective series of 14–24 year olds , who were enrolled\[\14–24\] ] , and a prospective study of \14–24 year olds , which included a retrospective series of 14–24 year olds , who were enrolled\[\14–24\] ] , and a prospective study of \14–24 year olds , which included a retrospective series of 14–24 year olds , who were enrolled\[\14–24\] ] , and a prospective study of \14–24 year olds , which included a retrospective series of 14–24 year olds , who were enrolled\[\14–25\] ] , and a prospective study of \14–25 year olds , which included a retrospective series of 14–25 year olds , who were enrolled\[\14–25\] ] , and a prospective study of \14–25 year olds , which included a retrospective series of 14–25 year olds , who were enrolled\[\14–25\] ] , and a prospective study of \14–25 year olds , which included a retrospective series of 14–25 year olds , who were enrolled\[\14–25\] ] , and a prospective study of \14–25 year olds , which included a retrospective series of 14–25 year olds , who were enrolled\[\14–25\] ] , and a prospective study\[\14–25\] ] , which included a retrospective series of 14–25 year olds , who were enrolled\[\14–25\] ] , and a prospective study\[\14–25\] ] ,
 Rice is a monocotyledonous crop that differs from the dicotyledonous plant Arabidopsis in many aspects. Here, we report that the transcriptional activation of OsEIL1 on the expression of YUC8/REIN7 and indole-3-pyruvic acid ( IPA ) -dependent auxin biosynthesis is required for ethylene-inhibited root elongation . Using an inhibitor of YUC activity , which regulates auxin biosynthesis via the conversion of IPA to IAA , we showed that ethylene-inhibited primary root elongation is dependent on IPA -dependent auxin biosynthesis . Truncated version at C-terminal end of the YUC8/REIN7 resulted in significant reduction of enzymatic activity , indicating that YUC8/REIN7 is required for IPA -dependent auxin biosynthesis and ethylene-inhibited root elongation in rice early seedlings . Furthermore , YUC8/REIN7 catalyzed the conversion of IPA to IAA , truncated version at C-terminal end of the YUC8/REIN7 resulted in significant reduction of enzymatic activity , indicating that YUC8/REIN7 is required for IPA -dependent auxin biosynthesis and ethylene-inhibited root elongation in rice early seedlings . Genetic studies revealed that YUC8/REIN7 functioned downstream of OsEIL1 , which directly activated the expression of YUC8/REIN7 . Thus , our findings reveal a model of interaction between ethylene and auxin in rice early seedlings .
 The long noncoding MALAT1 RNA is upregulated in cancer tissues and its elevated expression is associated with hyper-proliferation , but the underlying mechanism is poorly understood . We demonstrate that MALAT1 levels are regulated during normal cell cycle progression . Genome-wide transcriptome analyses in normal human diploid fibroblasts reveal that MALAT1 modulates the expression of cell cycle genes and is required for G1/S and mitotic progression . Depletion of MALAT1 leads to activation of p53 and its target genes . The cell cycle defects observed in MALAT1-depleted cells are sensitive to p53 levels , indicating that p53 is a major downstream mediator of MALAT1 activity . Furthermore , MALAT1-depleted cells display reduced expression of B-MYB ( Mybl2 ) , an oncogenic transcription factor involved in G2/M progression , due to altered binding of splicing factors on B-MYB pre-mRNA and aberrant alternative splicing . In human cells , MALAT1 promotes cellular proliferation by modulating the expression and/or pre-mRNA processing of cell cycle–regulated transcription factors . These findings provide mechanistic insights on the role of MALAT1 in regulating cellular proliferation .
 This study investigates the role of IL-7 in HIV-1 transmission and dissemination in human cervico-vaginal and lymphoid tissue ex vivo. The authors found that IL-7 facilitates HIV-1 transmission and dissemination by preventing the apoptosis and promoting the proliferation of CD4+ T cells. The study provides important insights into the mechanisms of HIV-1 transmission and suggests that IL-7 may be a target for therapeutic intervention.
 The evolution of metabolic robustness is still under debate. We propose a novel model that combines the network expansion method and the seed algorithm to predict robustness across species and environments. Our model is biologically plausible and allows us to decouple between robustness which is condition-dependent and robustness which is condition-independent. We find that condition-dependent robustness is responsible for at least 20% of the non-essential reactions and its extent is associated with the species' lifestyle ( specialized/generalist ). We identify reactions that are uniquely susceptible to perturbations in human pathogens , potentially serving as novel drug-targets .'], Abstract: 'The evolutionary origins of genetic robustness are still under debate: it may arise as a consequence of requirements imposed by varying environmental conditions , due to intrinsic factors such as metabolic requirements , or directly due to an adaptive selection in favor of genes that allow a species to endure genetic perturbations . Stratifying the individual effects of each origin requires one to study the pertaining evolutionary forces across many species under diverse conditions . Here we conduct the first large-scale computational study charting the level of robustness of metabolic networks of hundreds of bacterial species across many simulated growth environments . We provide evidence that variations among species in their level of robustness reflect ecological adaptations . We decouple metabolic robustness into two components and quantify the extents of each: the first , environmental-dependent , is responsible for at least 20% of the non-essential reactions and its extent is associated with the species' lifestyle ( specialized/generalist ) ; the second , environmental-independent , is associated ( correlation = ∼0 .6) with the intrinsic metabolic capacities of a species—higher robustness is observed in fast growers or in organisms with an extensive production of secondary metabolites . Finally , we identify reactions that are uniquely susceptible to perturbations in human pathogens , potentially serving as novel drug-targets .', Introduction: 'The evolutionary origins of genetic robustness are still under debate: it may arise as a consequence of requirements imposed by varying environmental conditions , due to intrinsic factors such as metabolic requirements , or directly due to an adaptive selection in favor of genes that allow a species to endure genetic perturbations . In the context of dominance , selection for increased metabolic flux is a widely accepted explanation for the recessive nature of most mutations [9]–[11] . Since metabolic enzymes act as part of large , multi-enzymes , networks , single-loci mutations ( resulting in 50% activity of the corresponding enzyme in the heterozygote ) are not expected to affect the overall behavior of the system . Hence such mutations are not detectable at the phenotypic level and mutants are considered to be recessive [12] . For genetic robustness , one can similarly argue that robustness is intrinsic to the optimization of some phenotypes , and has evolved as a byproduct of a selective pressure for increasing steady-state metabolic fluxes via the incorporation of alternative metabolic pathways [2] , [13] , [14] . Notably , there is an essential difference between man-made systems , where robustness is built in on purpose , and biological systems that are shaped by natural selection at the population level , in which non robust systems can survive if reproduction rate compensates failure rate . Few recently developed methods allow one to systematically address the influence of the environment on metabolic network structure . The network expansion method – a method for generating the set of all possible metaboltes that can be produced from a set of compounds - permits the reconstruction of networks in different metabolic environments [15] , [16] . Using the network expansion approach , we have shown that generic sub-networks ( describing a collection of metabolic reactions across known genomes rather than the reactions tenable within any specific organism ) , expanded under different collection of metabolites , are highly robust against the elimination of mutations [17] . The introduction of oxygen to the atmosphere , for example , was demonstrated to be coupled with the appearance of many new pathways and reactions , considerably increasing the complexity of the metabolic networks of aerobic species beyond that reachable by any anoxic network [18] . Studying the species-specific expansion of networks given various metabolite combinations has permitted the grouping together of organisms with similar metabolic capabilities [19] . Following the introduction of the expansion algorithm , other related topological approaches have been developed to provide predictions for the network-specific set of externally consumed metaboltes , as inferred by the structure of the corresponding
 The study reports the identification of a novel role for the Elongator complex in transcriptional silencing and maintenance of genome stability. The Elongator complex is a histone acetyltransferase that is required for DNA replication-coupled nucleosome assembly. The study shows that the Elongator complex interacts with PCNA, a protein involved in DNA replication-coupled nucleosome assembly, and that mutations in Elongator subunits result in loss of transcriptional silencing and increased sensitivity to DNA damaging agents. The study also shows that the Elongator complex acetylates H4K8, a modification required for DNA replication-coupled nucleosome assembly. These results suggest that the Elongator complex plays a role in maintaining genome stability through its involvement in DNA replication-coupled nucleosome assembly.
 This study investigates the role of the glycoprotein gB in the entry of herpes simplex virus (HSV) into cells. The authors show that gB can be modified to redirect the virus to a new receptor, HER2, and that this modification does not affect the virus's ability to enter cells. The study provides important insights into the mechanisms of HSV entry and has implications for the development of oncolytic HSVs.
 'The methylomes of DNMT3a wildtype and DNMT3a-deficient mouse lung tumomas were analyzed using whole-genome bisulfhi sequencing . The methylomes of DNMT3a wildtype and DNTR3a-deficient tumors were found to be distinct from each other . The methylomes of DNTR3a wildtype tumoms were characterized by large hypermethylated domains that correspond to nuclear lamha-associated domains . In contrast , the methylomes of DNTH3a-deficient tumors showed a uniformly hypm methylated genome . Further data analysis revealed that DNTR3a is required for efficient maintenance methylation of active chromosme domains and that DNTH3a-deficient tumors show moderate levels of gene déregulation in these domains . In summary , our results uncover a novel function of DNTR3a in cancer , as DNTR3a deficiency results in loss of methylation in large active chromosome domains , which was accompanied by the emergence of methylation patterns that were similar to those usually observed in human colon cancers . These findings suggest that DNTR3a plays an important role in the establishment of methylation patterns during early embryopherryer formation and that its absence results in a loss of methylation in large active chromosome domains . ', Abstract: 'Mycobacterium africanum is a member of the Mycobacterum tubuculosis complex ( MTC ) that causes human tubbchomas in West Africa . Its genome has been sequenced to provide a comprehensive understanding of its methylomes . Our analysis of the methylomes of DNTH3a wildtype and DNTR3a-deficient mouse lung tumomas revealed that the methylomes of DNTH3a wildtype tumoms were characterized by large hyperm methylated domains that correspond to nuclear larha-associated domains . In contrast , the methylomes of DNTH3a-deficient tumors showed a uniformly hypm methylated genome . Further data analysis revealed that DNTH3a is required for efficient maintenance methylation of active chromoshe domains and that DNTH3a-deficient tumios show moderate levels of gene déregulation in these domains . In summary , our results uncover a novel function of DNTH3a in cancer , as DNTH3a deficiency results in loss of methylation in large active chromoshe domains , which was accompanied by the emergence of methylation patterns that were similar to those usually observed in human colon cananos . These findings suggest that DNTH3a plays an important role in the establishment of methylation pattern during early embryopherryery formation and that its absence results in a loss of methylation in large active chromoshe domains . These findings also suggest that DNTH3a is required for efficient maintenance methylation of active chromoshe domains and that DNTH3a-deficient tumios show moderate levels of gene déregulation in these domains .', Keyword: '[cancer genetics,\ 'chromosome structure and function', 'genome sequencing',' 'epigenetics',' 'dna',' 'chromosme biology',' 'comparative genomics',' 'biology',' 'dna modification',' 'molecular biology',' 'nucleic acids',' 'genetics',' 'molecular cell biology',' 'genomics',' 'molecular cell biology',' 'genetics and genomics']', Lay Summary: 'Mycob bacteria africanum is a member of the Mycboracter tubuculosis complex ( MTC ) that causes human tubbchomas in West Africa . Its genome has been sequenced to provide a comprehensive understanding of its methylomes . Our analysis of the methylomes of DNTH3a wildtype and DNTH3a-deficient mouse lung tumomas revealed that the methylomes of DNTH3a wildtype tumoms were characterized by large hyperm methylated domains that correspond to nuclear larhrr-associated domains . In contrast , the methylomes of DNTH3a-deficient tumios showed a uniformly hypm methylated genome . Further data analysis revealed that DNTH3a is required for efficient maintenance methylation of active chromoshe domains and that DNTH3a-deficient tumios show moderate levels of gene déregulation in these domains . In summary , our results uncover a novel function of DNTH3a in cancer , as DNTH3a deficiency results in loss of methylation in large active chromoshe domains , which was
 The PR interval on the electrocardiogram reflects atrial and atrioventricular nodal conduction time . The PR interval is heritable , provides important information about arrhythmia risk , and has been suggested to differ among human races . Genome-wide association ( GWA ) studies have identified common genetic determinants of the PR interval in individuals of European and Asian ancestry , but there is a general paucity of GWA studies in individuals of African ancestry . We performed GWA studies in African American individuals from four cohorts ( n = 6 , 247 ) to identify genetic variants associated with PR interval duration . Genotyping was performed using the Affymetrix 6 . 0 microarray . Imputation was performed for 2 . 8 million single nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs ) using combined YRI and CEU HapMap phase II panels . We observed a strong signal ( rs3922844 ) within the gene encoding the cardiac sodium channel ( SCN5A ) with genome-wide significant association ( p<2 . 5×10−8 ) in two of the four cohorts and in the meta-analysis . The signal explained 2% of PR interval variability in African Americans ( beta = 5 . 1 msec per minor allele , 95% CI = 4 . 1–6 . 1 , p = 3×10−23 ) . This SNP was also associated with PR interval ( beta = 2 . 4 msec per minor allele , 95% CI = 1 . 8–3 . 0 , p = 3×10−16 ) in individuals of European ancestry ( n = 14 , 042 ) , but with a smaller effect size ( p for heterogeneity <0 . 001 ) and variability explained ( 0 . 5% ) . Further meta-analysis of the four cohorts identified genome-wide significant associations with SNPs in SCN10A ( rs6798015 ) , MEIS1 ( rs10865355 ) , and TBX5 ( rs7312625 ) that were highly correlated with SNPs identified in European and Asian GWA studies . African ancestry was associated with increased PR duration ( 13 . 3 msec , p = 0 . 009 ) in one but not the other three cohorts . Our findings demonstrate the relevance of common variants to African Americans at four loci previously associated with PR interval in European and Asian samples and identify an association signal at one of these loci that is more strongly associated with PR interval in African Americans than in Europeans . ', Keyword: '['arrhythmias/cardiovascular diseases', 'genetics and genomics/complex traits']', Lay Summary: 'The PR interval on the electrocardiogram reflects atrial and atrioventricular nodal conduction time . The PR interval is heritable , provides important information about arrhythmia risk , and has been suggested to differ among human races . Genome-wide association ( GWA ) studies have identified common genetic determinants of the PR interval in individuals of European and Asian ancestry , but there is a general paucity of GWA studies in individuals of African ancestry . We performed GWA studies in African American individuals from four cohorts ( n = 6 , 247 ) to identify genetic variants associated with PR interval duration . Genotyping was performed using the Affymetrix 6 . 0 microarray . Imputation was performed for 2 . 8 million single nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs ) using combined YRI and CEU HapMap phase II panels . We observed a strong signal ( rs3922844 ) within the gene encoding the cardiac sodium channel ( SCN5A ) with genome-wide significant association ( p<2 . 5×10−8 ) in two of the four cohorts and in the meta-analysis . The signal explained 2% of PR interval variability in African Americans ( beta = 5 . 1 msec per minor allele , 95% CI = 4 . 1–6 . 1 , p = 3×10−23 ) . This SNP was also associated with PR interval ( beta = 2 . 4 msec per minor allele , 95% CI = 1 . 8–3 . 0 , p = 3×10−16 ) in individuals of European ancestry ( n = 1
 In this study, we report the identification of a novel player in auxin-mediated plant development and growth. We found that AtMOB1A, a plant homolog of animal MOB1 proteins, plays an important role in auxin-mediated plant development. We showed that AtMOB1A synergistically interacts with auxin biosynthesis, transport, and signaling pathways to regulate Arabidopsis development. We further demonstrated that AtMOB1A likely controls plant development by promoting auxin signaling. Our findings suggest that AtMOB1A is a key component of the auxin-mediated developmental pathway in plants.
 The BRCA Challenge is a global initiative to develop a comprehensive, standardized, and secure system for sharing and curating data on BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants. The BRCA Challenge is a collaboration between academic researchers , clinical laboratories , and national programs to develop a data-sharing and curation system for BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants that is accessible to all stakeholders worldwide . The BRCA Challenge is a model for systematically engaging broad communities and resources for sharing data across genes and eventually regulatory regions of major clinical importance . The BRCA Challenge is a global initiative to develop a comprehensive, standardized, and secure system for sharing and curating data on BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants. The BRCA Challenge is a collaboration between academic researchers , clinical laboratories , and national programs to develop a data-sharing and curation system for BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants that is accessible to all stakeholders worldwide . The BRCA Challenge is a model for systematically engaging broad communities and resources for sharing data across genes and eventually regulatory regions of major clinical importance . The BRCA Challenge is a global initiative to develop a comprehensive, standardized, and secure system for sharing and curating data on BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants. The BRCA Challenge is a collaboration between academic researchers , clinical laboratories , and national programs to develop a data-sharing and curation system for BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants that is accessible to all stakeholders worldwide . The BRCA Challenge is a model for systematically engaging broad communities and resources for sharing data across genes and eventually regulatory regions of major clinical importance . The BRCA Challenge is a global initiative to develop a comprehensive, standardized, and secure system for sharing and curating data on BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants. The BRCA Challenge is a collaboration between academic researchers , clinical laboratories , and national programs to develop a data-sharing and curation system for BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants that is accessible to all stakeholders worldwide . The BRCA Challenge is a model for systematically engaging broad communities and resources for sharing data across genes and eventually regulatory regions of major clinical importance . The BRCA Challenge is a global initiative to develop a comprehensive, standardized, and secure system for sharing and curating data on BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants. The BRCA Challenge is a collaboration between academic researchers , clinical laboratories , and national programs to develop a data-sharing and curation system for BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants that is accessible to all stakeholders worldwide . The BRCA Challenge is a model for systematically engaging broad communities and resources for sharing data across genes and eventually regulatory regions of major clinical importance . The BRCA Challenge is a global initiative to develop a comprehensive, standardized, and secure system for sharing and curating data on BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants. The BRCA Challenge is a collaboration between academic researchers , clinical laboratories , and national programs to develop a data-sharing and curation system for BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants that is accessible to all stakeholders worldwide . The BRCA Challenge is a model for systematically engaging broad communities and resources for sharing data across genes and eventually regulatory regions of major clinical importance . The BRCA Challenge is a global initiative to develop a comprehensive, standardized, and secure system for sharing and curating data on BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants. The BRCA Challenge is a collaboration between academic researchers , clinical laboratories , and national programs to develop a data-sharing and curation system for BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants that is accessible to all stakeholders worldwide . The BRCA Challenge is a model for systematically engaging broad communities and resources for sharing data across genes and eventually regulatory regions of major clinical importance . The BRCA Challenge is a global initiative to develop a comprehensive, standardized, and secure system for sharing and curating data on BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants. The BRCA Challenge is a collaboration between academic researchers , clinical laboratories , and national programs to develop a data-sharing and curation system for BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants that is accessible to all stakeholders worldwide . The BRCA Challenge is a model for systematically engaging broad communities and resources for sharing data across genes and eventually regulatory regions of major clinical importance . The BRCA Challenge is a global initiative to develop a comprehensive, standardized, and secure system for sharing and curating data on BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants. The BRCA Challenge is a collaboration between academic researchers , clinical laboratories , and national programs to develop a data-sharing and curation system for BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants that is accessible to all stakeholders worldwide . The BRCA Challenge is a model for systematically engaging broad communities and resources for sharing data across genes and eventually regulatory regions of major clinical
 'The RAS/MAPK pathway is a conserved signaling cascade that plays a central role in cellular proliferation, differentiation, and survival. The pathway consists of three kinases ( RAF , MEK , and ERK/MAPK ) that transmit signals downstream of the small GTPase RAS . Upstream of RAS , a variety of factors regulate RAS activation, including receptor tyrosine kinases ( RTKs ) , guanine nucleotide exchange factors ( GEFs ) , and constitutive splicing factors ( CSFs ) . These factors act at different steps along the pathway and include transcription factors such as c-Jun , c-Fos , p53 , ELK1 , c-Myc , c-Myb , STAT1/3 , SRF , and SMAD1/2/3/4 . In addition , we identified five novel components that act upstream of RAF , including a complex named STRIPAK that also includes PP2A . Unexpectedly , the majority of our candidates did not map to the interval between RAS and RAF , but were instead positioned further downstream . These included some transcription factors that we found regulate the transcript abundance of mek , mapk , or of the MAPK phosphatase PTP-EH . However , most of the novel factors were associated with mRNA processing and were found to act downstream of MEK and to regulate mapk splicing . Among these were components of the exon junction complex ( EJC ) , which we and others have previously reported to be involved in regulating the splicing of the mapk pre-mRNA [41] , [42] . In this study , we focus on the function of a larger group of canonical splicing factors that also regulate mapk splicing . We show that the impact of these factors on alternative splicing ( AS ) of mapk differs from what we previously described for the EJC , indicating that two different types of regulatory input act on this step in mapk expression . Thus , in addition to providing a comprehensive view of regulatory factors influencing signal transmission between RAS and MAPK , this work suggests that pathway output does not solely rely on post translational regulatory events , such as those controlling RAF activation , but is also tightly governed by the regulation of the expression of core components . In particular , the expression of MAPK emerges as a focal point for multiple different regulatory inputs . In addition , we show that the impact of these factors on alternative splicing ( AS ) of mapk differs from what we previously described for the EJC , indicating that two different types of regulatory input act on this step in mapk expression . Thus , in addition to providing a comprehensive view of regulatory factors influencing signal transmission between RAS and MAPK , this work suggests that pathway output does not solely rely on post translational regulatory events , such as those controlling RAF activation , but is also tightly governed by the regulation of the expression of core components . In particular , the expression of MAPK emerges as a focal point for multiple different regulatory inputs . In addition , we show that the impact of these factors on alternative splicing ( AS ) of mapk differs from what we previously described for the EJC , indicating that two different types of regulatory input act on this step in mapk expression . Thus , in addition to providing a comprehensive view of regulatory factors influencing signal transmission between RAS and MAPK , this work suggests that pathway output does not solely rely on post translational regulatory events , such as those controlling RAF activation , but is also tightly governed by the regulation of the expression of core components . In particular , the expression of MAPK emerges as a focal point for multiple different regulatory inputs . In addition , we show that the impact of these factors on alternative splicing ( AS ) of mapk differs from what we previously described for the EJC , indicating that two different types of regulatory input act on this step in mapk expression . Thus , in addition to providing a comprehensive view of regulatory factors influencing signal transmission between RAS and MAPK , this work suggests that pathway output does not solely rely on post translational regulatory events , such as those controlling RAF activation , but is also tightly governed by the regulation of the expression of core components . In particular , the expression of MAPK emerges as a focal point for multiple different regulatory inputs . In addition , we show that the impact of these factors on alternative splicing ( AS ) of mapk differs from what we previously described for the EJC , indicating that two different types of regulatory input act on this step in mapk expression . Thus , in addition to providing a comprehensive view of regulatory
 This study provides a novel approach to quantifying the informativeness of genetic data in the reconstruction of transmission trees for different pathogens. We introduce the concept of transmission divergence, which we define as the number of mutations separating pathogen samples of known transmission pairs. We estimate transmission divergence using simulations based on parameters available in the literature for ten major outbreak-causing pathogens. We find that transmission divergence varies significantly across different pathogens, with greater transmission divergence enabling better reconstruction of transmission trees. We compare estimates of transmission divergence under different models of sequence evolution and transmission tree reconstruction, using the outbreaker and phybreak inference algorithms for the R software. Our results highlight the impact of transmission divergence on the inference of transmission trees and suggest that genetic data may be more informative for certain pathogens than others. This study provides a valuable tool for evaluating the informativeness of genetic data in outbreak reconstruction and may inform the development of more accurate and efficient methods for inferring transmission trees.
 Here we show that behavioural inhibition arises as cost-minimising strategy in a controlled anxiety model , and that it is the optimal approach in a subset of subjects who subsequently developed symptomatic dengue infection . We also demonstrate that the adaptive value of pre-existing immune responses to dengue virus is significantly higher in subjects who develop subclinical infection . These findings suggest that the immune system is capable of predicting and preparing for a subsequent infection, and that this may be a key factor in the pathogenesis of dengue fever . The data presented here may be useful for understanding the mechanisms underlying the differential clinical outcomes of dengue infection in humans and animals, and for developing new strategies for prevention and treatment of dengue fever .
