 'Fleas can transmit Yersinia pestis by two mechanisms, early-phase transmission (EPT) and biofilm-dependent transmission (BDT). Transmission efficiency varies among flea species and the results from different studies have not always been consistent. One complicating variable is the species of rodent blood used for the infectious blood meal. To gain insight into the mechanism of EPT and the effect that host blood has on it, fleas were fed bacteremic mouse, rat, guinea pig, or gerbil blood; and the location and characteristics of the infection in the digestive tract and transmissibility of Y. pestis were assessed 1 to 3 days after infection. Surprisingly, 10–28% of two rodent flea species fed bacteremic rat or guinea pig blood refluxed a portion of the infected blood meal into the esophagus within 24 h of feeding. We term this phenomenon post-infection esophageal reflux (PIER). In contrast, PIER was rarely observed in rodent fleas fed bacteremic mouse or gerbil blood. PIER correlated with the accumulation of a dense mixed aggregate of Y. pestis, red blood cell stroma, and oxyhemoglobin crystals that filled the proventriculus. At their next feeding, fleas with PIER were 3–25 times more likely to appear partially blocked, with fresh blood retained within the esophagus, than were fleas without PIER. Three days after feeding on bacteremic rat blood, groups of Oropsylla montana transmitted significantly more CFU than did groups infected using mouse blood, and this enhanced transmission was biofilm-dependent. Our data support a model in which EPT results from regurgitation of Y. pestis from a partially obstructed flea foregut and that EPT and BDT can sometimes temporally overlap. The relative insolubility of the hemoglobin of rats and Sciurids and the slower digestion of their blood appears to promote regurgitative transmission, which may be one reason why these rodents are particularly prominent in plague ecology.'
 'Retroviruses are a group of viruses that integrate their genetic material into the host genome. Some of these integrated viruses, known as endogenous retroviruses (ERVs), have been passed down through generations and have become part of the host genome. These ERVs can have both harmful and beneficial effects on the host. In this study, the authors investigated the relationship between ERVs and exogenous retroviruses in sheep. They found that some ERVs have evolved to block the replication of related exogenous retroviruses, providing evidence for an evolutionary antagonism between these two types of viruses. The authors suggest that this relationship may be a mechanism used by the host to fight retroviral infections. This study provides important insights into the complex relationship between viruses and their hosts.'
 'The Drosophila embryonic gonad is assembled from two distinct cell types, the Primordial Germ Cells ( PGCs ) and the Somatic Gonadal Precursor cells ( SGPs ). The PGCs form at the posterior of blastoderm stage embryos and are subsequently carried inside the embryo during gastrulation. To reach the SGPs, the PGCs must traverse the midgut wall and then migrate through the mesoderm. A combination of local repulsive cues and attractive signals emanating from the SGPs guide migration. We have investigated the role of the hedgehog ( hh ) pathway gene shifted ( shf ) in directing PGC migration. shf encodes a secreted protein that facilitates the long distance transmission of Hh through the proteoglycan matrix after it is released from basolateral membranes of Hh expressing cells in the wing imaginal disc. shf is expressed in the gonadal mesoderm, and loss- and gain-of-function experiments demonstrate that it is required for PGC migration. Previous studies have established that the hmgcr-dependent isoprenoid biosynthetic pathway plays a pivotal role in generating the PGC attractant both by the SGPs and by other tissues when hmgcr is ectopically expressed. We show that production of this PGC attractant depends upon shf as well as a second hh pathway gene gγ1. Further linking the PGC attractant to Hh, we present evidence indicating that ectopic expression of hmgcr in the nervous system promotes the release/transmission of the Hh ligand from these cells into and through the underlying mesodermal cell layer, where Hh can contact migrating PGCs. Finally, potentiation of Hh by hmgcr appears to depend upon cholesterol modification. '
 'In this study, we extended our previous model of adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus to include realistic, spatially driven input firing patterns in the form of grid cells in the entorhinal cortex. We compared network performance across a sequence of spatial environments using three distinct adaptation strategies: conventional synaptic plasticity, neuronal turnover, and additive neurogenesis. We confirmed that additive neurogenesis is a superior adaptation strategy when using realistic, spatially structured input patterns. We then showed that a more biologically plausible neurogenesis rule that incorporates cell death and enhanced plasticity of new granule cells has an overall performance significantly better than any one of the three individual strategies operating alone. We also examined the time course of adult neurogenesis over the lifetime of an animal raised under different hypothetical rearing conditions. These growth profiles have several distinct features that form a theoretical prediction that could be tested experimentally. Finally, we showed that place cells can emerge and refine in a realistic manner in our model as a direct result of the sparsification performed by the dentate gyrus layer.'
 'Pluripotent stem cells are capable of differentiating into any type of cell in the body, making them a promising source for cell replacement therapies. However, understanding the mechanisms by which these cells maintain their self-renewal and pluripotency is crucial for their successful manipulation in culture. In this study, the authors used a combination of gene expression profiling, computational genomic analysis, and biochemical assays to identify novel cis-regulatory sequences that control gene expression in pluripotent stem cells. They compared the gene expression profiles of embryonic stem (ES) cells and primordial germ cells (PGCs) to embryonic and adult somatic cell types and identified clusters of genes upregulated in pluripotent cells. The authors then used a novel algorithm, CompMoby, to identify sets of motifs in the upstream regions of coregulated genes. They found that several of the predicted motifs are novel regulatory elements of gene expression in mouse and human ES cells. Finally, the authors demonstrated that the transcription factor NF-Y binds to one of the motifs, is differentially expressed during ES cell differentiation, and is required for ES cell proliferation.'
 'Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) is a highly infectious virus that causes chronic liver disease in humans. The current model of HCV production involves the assembly of virions on or near the surface of lipid droplets, envelopment at the ER in association with components of VLDL synthesis, and egress via the secretory pathway. However, the cellular requirements for and a mechanistic understanding of HCV secretion are incomplete. In this study, we combined an RNA interference ( RNAi ) analysis of host factors for infectious HCV secretion with the development of live cell imaging of HCV core trafficking to gain a detailed understanding of HCV egress. RNAi studies identified multiple components of the secretory pathway, including ER to Golgi trafficking, lipid and protein kinases that regulate budding from the trans-Golgi network ( TGN ) , VAMP1 vesicles and adaptor proteins, and the recycling endosome. Our results support a model wherein HCV is infectious upon envelopment at the ER and exits the cell via the secretory pathway. We next constructed infectious HCV with a tetracysteine ( TC ) tag insertion in core ( TC-core ) to monitor the dynamics of HCV core trafficking in association with its cellular cofactors. In order to isolate core protein movements associated with infectious HCV secretion, only trafficking events that required the essential HCV assembly factor NS2 were quantified. TC-core traffics to the cell periphery along microtubules and this movement can be inhibited by nocodazole. Sub-populations of TC-core localize to the Golgi and co-traffic with components of the recycling endosome. Silencing of the recycling endosome component Rab11a results in the accumulation of HCV core at the Golgi. The majority of dynamic core traffics in association with apolipoprotein E ( ApoE ) and VAMP1 vesicles. This study identifies many new host cofactors of HCV egress, while presenting dynamic studies of HCV core trafficking in infected cells.'
 'This study uses molecular dynamics simulations to analyze the conformational behavior of two synthetic peptides, LKKLLKLLKKLLKL (LK) and EAALAEALAEALAE (EALA), with built-in secondary amphiphilicity upon forming an alpha-helix. The peptides are neither random coils in bulk water nor fully formed alpha helices, but adopt multiple conformations and secondary structure elements with short lifetimes. These provide a basis for conformation-selection and population-shift upon environmental changes. Differences in these peptides’ response to macroscopic and molecular interfaces can be linked to their inherent alpha-helical tendencies in bulk water. The peptides’ aggregation behavior is also strongly affected by presence or absence of an interface, and rather subtly depends on their surface charge and hydrophobicity. The study provides insight into the conformational behavior of intrinsically disordered peptides and their aggregation at interfaces, which is of great importance for understanding the toxicity of amyloidogenic peptides and proteins.'
 'Streptococcus pneumoniae is a leading cause of disease in humans, including pneumonia, otitis media, and sepsis. The pneumococcus is a commensal organism that colonizes the nasopharynx of humans, and is transmitted from person to person through respiratory secretions. The pneumococcus can also cause disease by invading normally sterile sites within the respiratory tract, such as the middle ear cavity or lungs, or by gaining access to the bloodstream. Influenza A (IAV) co-infection increases the risk of pneumococcal disease. In this study, the authors used an infant mouse model of colonization, disease, and transmission to study the pathogenesis of the pneumococcus. They found that in the setting of IAV co-infection, the pneumococcus must pass through single cell bottlenecks during bloodstream invasion from the nasopharynx within the host and in transmission between hosts. These bottlenecks were not associated with genetic adaptation by the pathogen. The authors suggest that these findings demonstrate how viral infection and TLR-dependent innate immune responses stimulated by viral infection drive bacterial contagion. The study provides new insights into the mechanisms of pneumococcal pathogenesis and may inform the development of new strategies for controlling pneumococcal disease.'
 'The Human Immunodeficiency Virus ( HIV ) spreads efficiently both in a cell-free state and from cell to cell . However, the relative importance of the cell-cell transmission mode in natural infection has not yet been resolved. Likewise, the extent to which cell-cell transmission is vulnerable to inhibition by neutralizing antibodies and entry inhibitors remains to be determined. Here, we report on neutralizing antibody activity during cell-cell transmission using specifically tailored experimental strategies which enable unambiguous discrimination between the two transmission routes. We demonstrate that the activity of neutralizing monoclonal antibodies ( mAbs ) and entry inhibitors during cell-cell transmission varies depending on their mode of action. While gp41 directed agents remain active, CD4 binding site ( CD4bs ) directed inhibitors, including the potent neutralizing mAb VRC01, dramatically lose potency during cell-cell contacts. This implies that CD4bs mAbs act preferentially through blocking free virus transmission, while still allowing HIV to spread through cell-cell contacts. Thus providing a plausible explanation for how HIV maintains infectivity and rapidly escapes potent and broadly active CD4bs directed antibody responses in vivo.'
 'Genetic testing has been used to predict the risk of developing complex diseases, but it is not clear how well these tests work. In this study, we developed a statistical framework to evaluate the performance of genetic risk prediction models. We showed that the performance of a model can be assessed using a variety of indices, including the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC), the mean risk difference between cases and non-cases, the net reclassification improvement (ability to reclassify people into high- and low-risk categories), the proportion of cases explained by a specific percentile of population at the highest risk, the variance of predicted risks, and the risk at any percentile. We also demonstrated how to construct graphs to visualize the performance of risk models, such as the ROC curve, the density of risks, and the predictiveness curve (disease risk plotted against risk percentile). We applied our methodology to nine complex diseases, evaluating the predictive power of genetic tests based on known susceptibility variants for each trait. Our results suggest that genetic testing can be useful for predicting the risk of developing complex diseases, but it is important to consider the specific context and population being tested. '
 'The Saccharomyces cerevisiae RAD3 gene is the homolog of human XPD, an essential gene encoding a DNA helicase of the TFIIH complex involved in both nucleotide excision repair (NER) and transcription. Some mutant alleles of RAD3 (rad3-101 and rad3-102) have partial defects in DNA repair and a strong hyper-recombination (hyper-Rec) phenotype. Previous studies showed that the hyper-Rec phenotype associated with rad3-101 and rad3-102 can be explained as a consequence of persistent single-stranded DNA gaps that are converted to recombinogenic double-strand breaks (DSBs) by replication. The systems previously used to characterize the hyper-Rec phenotype of rad3 strains do not detect the reciprocal products of mitotic recombination. We have further characterized these events using a system in which the reciprocal products of mitotic recombination are recovered. Both rad3-101 and rad3-102 elevate the frequency of reciprocal crossovers about 100-fold. Mapping of these events shows that three-quarters of these crossovers reflect DSBs formed at the same positions in both sister chromatids (double sister-chromatid breaks, DSCBs). The remainder reflects DSBs formed in single chromatids (single chromatid breaks, SCBs). The ratio of DSCBs to SCBs is similar to that observed for spontaneous recombination events in wild-type cells. We mapped 216 unselected genomic alterations throughout the genome including crossovers, gene conversions, deletions, and duplications. We found a significant association between the location of these recombination events and regions with elevated gamma-H2AX. In addition, there was a hotspot for deletions and duplications at the IMA2 and HXT11 genes near the left end of chromosome XV. A comparison of these data with our previous analysis of spontaneous mitotic recombination events suggests that a sub-set of spontaneous events in wild-type cells may be initiated by incomplete NER reactions, and that DSCBs, which cannot be repaired by sister-chromatid recombination, are a major source of mitotic recombination between homologous chromosomes.'
 'A proposed budget cut to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) could have serious consequences for the country's ability to handle new emerging diseases and manage existing ones. In this study, we used a mathematical model to evaluate the impact of delayed control responses to dengue epidemics in an economically developed urban environment. We found that halting mosquito surveillance can increase the management costs of epidemics by up to an order of magnitude in comparison to a strategy with sustained surveillance and early case detection. Our analysis shows that the total costs of preparedness through surveillance are far lower than the ones needed to respond to the introduction of vector-borne pathogens, even without consideration of the cost in human lives and well-being. Our findings provide a science-based justification for the re-assessment of the current proposal to slash the budget of the CDC vector-borne diseases program and emphasize the need for improved and sustainable systems for vector-borne disease surveillance.'
 'The regulation of gene expression is a complex process that involves the interaction of multiple transcription factors and enhancers. Insulator elements are DNA sequences that regulate interactions between promoters and enhancers by preventing inappropriate enhancer/promoter communication. In Drosophila, the zinc-finger protein CTCF has been identified as an enhancer blocking factor. To identify CTCF binding sites in the Drosophila genome, chromatin immunopurification coupled with genomic microarray analysis was carried out. CTCF binding sites were identified in several regions of the Drosophila genome, including the 3-Mb Adh region, the Bithorax complex (BX-C), and the Antennapedia complex. The locations of the CTCF sites within these regions enabled the construction of a robust CTCF binding-site consensus sequence. CTCF binding sites identified in the BX-C mapped precisely to the known insulator elements Mcp, Fab-6, and Fab-8, suggesting that the functioning of these insulators involves a common CTCF-dependent mechanism. Comparison of the locations of the CTCF sites with characterised Polycomb target sites and histone modification provided support for the domain model of BX-C regulation. The study provides new insights into the role of CTCF in the regulation of gene expression in Drosophila and highlights the importance of insulator elements in the genomic organisation of transcriptional regulation.'
 'Ebolaviruses are highly lethal zoonotic pathogens with longer genomes than most other non-segmented negative-strand RNA viruses due to long 5′ and 3′ untranslated regions ( UTRs ) present in the seven viral transcriptional units. To date, specific functions have not been assigned to these UTRs. With reporter assays, we demonstrated that the Zaire ebolavirus ( EBOV ) 5′-UTRs lack internal ribosomal entry site function. However, the 5′-UTRs do differentially regulate cap-dependent translation when placed upstream of a GFP reporter gene. Most dramatically, the 5′-UTR derived from the viral polymerase ( L ) mRNA strongly suppressed translation of GFP compared to a β-actin 5′-UTR. The L uAUG is one of four viral genes to possess upstream AUGs ( uAUGs ), and ablation of each uAUG enhanced translation of the primary ORF ( pORF ) , most dramatically in the case of the L 5′-UTR. The L uAUG was sufficient to initiate translation, is surrounded by a “weak” Kozak sequence and suppressed pORF translation in a position-dependent manner. Under conditions where eIF2α was phosphorylated, the presence of the uORF maintained translation of the L pORF, indicating that the uORF modulates L translation in response to cellular stress. To directly address the role of the L uAUG in virus replication, a recombinant EBOV was generated in which the L uAUG was mutated to UCG. Strikingly, mutating two nucleotides outside of previously-defined protein coding and cis-acting regulatory sequences attenuated virus growth to titers 10–100-fold lower than a wild-type virus in Vero and A549 cells. The mutant virus also exhibited decreased viral RNA synthesis as early as 6 hours post-infection and enhanced sensitivity to the stress inducer thapsigargin. Cumulatively, these data identify novel mechanisms by which EBOV regulates its polymerase expression, demonstrate their relevance to virus replication, and identify a potential therapeutic target.'
 'Rabies is a fatal disease of the central nervous system caused by a neurotropic RNA virus. The two main clinical forms of rabies are furious and paralytic, with the latter being characterized by weakness of the hind limbs. The present study aimed to compare the intracellular spread of rabies virus in the furious and paralytic forms of the disease. The study found that the amount of rabies viral antigen in cell processes was greater in the furious form compared to the paralytic form, at all anatomic levels examined. This difference was even evident when comparing neurons with similar amounts of antigen and similar percentages of involved neurons. These findings suggest that intracellular transport of the virus may be slower in the paralytic form, resulting in slower viral propagation. Possible mechanisms might involve host-specific differences in intracellular virus transport.'
14-3-3 proteins are able to bind phosphorylated proteins and play an undefined role under DNA replication stress. Exonuclease 1 (Exo1) processes stalled replication forks in checkpoint-defective yeast cells. We now identify 14-3-3 proteins as in vivo interaction partners of Exo1, both in yeast and mammalian cells. Yeast 14-3-3–deficient cells fail to induce Mec1–dependent Exo1 hyperphosphorylation and accumulate Exo1–dependent ssDNA gaps at stalled forks, as revealed by electron microscopy. This leads to persistent checkpoint activation and exacerbated recovery defects. Moreover, using DNA bi-dimensional electrophoresis, we show that 14-3-3 proteins promote fork progression under limiting nucleotide concentrations. We propose that 14-3-3 proteins assist in controlling the phosphorylation status of Exo1 and additional unknown targets, promoting fork progression, stability, and restart in response to DNA replication stress.
 'Sindbis virus ( SINV ) is a mosquito-borne virus that causes arthritis and rash in humans. It was first recognized in northern Europe about 50 years ago and is known as Ockelbo disease in Sweden and Pogosta disease in Finland. SINV occurs mainly in tropical and sub-tropical countries, and in northern Europe it is suggested to cause regularly reoccurring outbreaks. In the present study, we evaluated mosquito abundance and SINV prevalence in vector mosquitoes from an endemic area in central Sweden. We found that increased SINV-I prevalence in vector mosquitoes constitutes the most valuable outbreak marker for further scrutinizing the hypothesized seven-year cycle of SINV-I outbreaks and the mechanisms behind. Our findings suggest that SINV-I is endemic in the River Dalälven floodplains and that the enzootic vector Culex torrentium/pipiens and the bridge-vector Aedes cinereus are the main vectors for SINV-I transmission to humans. The genetic analysis revealed local maintenance of four SINV-I clades in the River Dalälven floodplains over the years. Our findings provide valuable information for public health authorities to inform about the risk for mosquito-borne SINV infection with good timing, and to motivate people to use protective clothes and repellents to reduce the number of mosquito bites and thereby decrease the risk for infection and disease.'
 'In this study, we used transcriptional profiling to identify genes that are differentially expressed in response to different bacteria isolated in association with grassland nematodes or from grassland soils . We then used mutations that inactivate 21 of the identified genes to show that most contribute to lifespan and/or fitness in a given bacterial environment . We also used regression analysis to demonstrate that for many genes the degree of differential gene expression between two bacterial environments predicted the magnitude of the effect of the loss of gene function on life history traits in those environments . Our results demonstrate that the functions of many of the genes specifically induced in response to different bacteria contribute to nematode fitness and lifespan in those bacterial environments . Furthermore , for specific genes , the extent of differential gene expression between bacterial environments was correlated with the degree of the effect of mutations in those genes on life history traits in those environments . Thus we propose that examination of differential gene expression in different environments allows for prediction of degree of mutational effects of those genes in those environments . Additionally , the examination of C . elegans gene function in new environments has uncovered new phenotypes for previously studied genes as well as genes that had not been shown to have obvious phenotypes under standard laboratory conditions , perhaps adding to our understanding of the C . elegans genome .'
 'Centromeres are the attachment points between the genome and the cytoskeleton. In plants, centromeres are marked by a histone H3 variant known as Centromeric Histone H3 ( CENH3 ). CENH3 is assembled relatively late in the cell cycle and is targeted by specialized proteins that require CENH3 for localization. One such protein is Centromere protein C ( CENPC ), a DNA binding protein that has a key role in centromere recognition and maintenance. In maize, centromeric DNA does not function to recruit kinetochores until it is combined with specific epigenetic marks. Maize centromere repeats are under-methylated and transcribed to produce stable RNAs that remain tightly bound to chromatin. It was proposed that RNA may serve as a structural template to help recruit kinetochore proteins. A recent study revealed that human centromeres contain similar RNAs and established that RNAse treatment delocalizes CENPC from mature kinetochores. In this study, we show that maize CENPC has both DNA-binding and RNA-binding capacities, that the DNA/RNA-binding domain is localized to the exon duplication region, and that the binding domain is required for efficient centromere localization. We further show that RNA directly facilitates the binding of CENPC to DNA in vitro, providing a biochemical mechanism for the involvement of RNA in centromere specification. We argue that CENPC and RNA are a part of the template that directs CENH3 to newly replicated centromere DNA.'
 'Humans are diploid, meaning they have two sets of chromosomes, one inherited from each parent. However, most human genome sequencing initiatives do not directly phase the genome, meaning they do not determine which chromosome carries which variant. To address this issue, we compared 11 different approaches to phasing human genomes using the publicly available 'Genome-In-A-Bottle' (GIAB) phased version of the NA12878 genome as a gold standard. Our results suggest that a hybrid or combined approach that leverages population-based phasing using the SHAPEIT software suite, either genome-wide sequencing read data or parental genotypes, and a large reference panel of variant and haplotype frequencies, provides a fast and efficient way to produce highly accurate phase-resolved individual human genomes. We found that for population-based approaches, phasing performance is enhanced with the addition of genome-wide read data; e.g., whole genome shotgun and/or RNA sequencing reads. Further, we found that the inclusion of parental genotype data within a population-based phasing strategy can provide as much as a ten-fold reduction in phasing errors. Finally, we identified DNA sequence signatures associated with the genomic regions harboring phasing switch errors, which included regions of low polymorphism or SNV density. Our findings provide important insights into the challenges and opportunities of phasing human genomes and may have implications for the development of technologies with potential applications in regeneration, aging, and cancer.'
 ' HIV-1 infection in humans and SIV infection in macaques are both caused by a retrovirus that uses the CD4 receptor on T cells to enter cells. However, in natural hosts such as sooty mangabeys, the virus is non-pathogenic despite robust virus replication. In this study, we found that a novel mutation in the CCR5 gene of sooty mangabeys encodes a truncated molecule that is not expressed on the cell surface and does not support SIV entry in vitro. The allele was present at a 26% frequency in a large sooty mangabeys colony, along with 3% for a CCR5Δ24 deletion allele that also abrogates surface expression. Overall, 8% of animals were homozygous for defective CCR5 alleles and 41% were heterozygous. The mutant allele was also present in wild sooty mangabeys in West Africa. CD8+ and CD4+ T cells displayed a gradient of CCR5 expression across genotype groups, which was highly significant for CD8+ cells. Remarkably, the prevalence of natural SIVsmm infection was not significantly different in animals lacking functional CCR5 compared to heterozygous and homozygous wild-type animals. Furthermore, animals lacking functional CCR5 had robust plasma viral loads, which were only modestly lower than wild-type animals. SIVsmm entry through alternative pathways in vivo raises the possibility of novel CCR5-negative target cells that may be more expendable than CCR5+ cells and enable the virus to replicate efficiently without causing disease in the face of extremely restricted CCR5 expression seen in sooty mangabeys and several other natural host species. This data clearly indicate that SIVsmm relies on CCR5-independent entry pathways in sooty mangabeys that are homozygous for defective CCR5 alleles and, while the extent of alternative coreceptor use in SM with CCR5 wild type alleles is uncertain, strongly suggest that SIVsmm tropism and host cell targeting in vivo is defined by the distribution and use of alternative entry pathways in addition to CCR5. SIVsmm entry through alternative pathways in vivo raises the possibility of novel CCR5-negative target cells that may be more expendable than CCR5+ cells and enable the virus to replicate efficiently without causing disease in the face of extremely restricted CCR5 expression seen in sooty mangabeys and several other natural host species. This data clearly indicate that SIVsmm relies on CCR5-independent entry pathways in sooty mangabeys that are homozygous for defective CCR5 alleles and, while the extent of alternative coreceptor use in SM with CCR5 wild type alleles is uncertain, strongly suggest that SIVsmm tropism and host cell targeting in vivo is defined by the distribution and use of alternative entry pathways in addition to CCR5. SIVsmm entry through alternative pathways in vivo raises the possibility of novel CCR5-negative target cells that may be more expendable than CCR5+ cells and enable the virus to replicate efficiently without causing disease in the face of extremely restricted CCR5 expression seen in sooty mangabeys and several other natural host species. This data clearly indicate that SIVsmm relies on CCR5-independent entry pathways in sooty mangabeys that are homozygous for defective CCR5 alleles and, while the extent of alternative coreceptor use in SM with CCR5 wild type alleles is uncertain, strongly suggest that SIVsmm tropism and host cell targeting in vivo is defined by the distribution and use of alternative entry pathways in addition to CCR5. SIVsmm entry through alternative pathways in vivo raises the possibility of novel CCR5-negative target cells that may be more expendable than CCR5+ cells and enable the virus to replicate efficiently without causing disease in the face of extremely restricted CCR5 expression seen in sooty mangabeys and several other natural host species. This data clearly indicate that SIVsmm relies on CCR5-independent entry pathways in sooty mangabeys that are homozygous for defective CCR5 alleles and, while the extent of alternative coreceptor use in SM with CCR5 wild type alleles is uncertain, strongly suggest that SIVsmm tropism and host cell targeting in vivo is defined by the distribution and use of alternative entry pathways in addition to C
 'In this study, we investigated the relationship between insulin signaling and attractiveness in the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster. We found that insulin signaling in the fat body and ovarian follicle cells affects attractiveness, and that these effects are opposite. We also found that modulation of insulin signaling in the fat body and follicle cells affects fecundity in the corresponding direction. Furthermore, we found that the cues that respond to insulin signaling are distinct, indicating independent readouts of the pathway activity from these two tissues. Our results suggest that female attractiveness results from an apparent connection between attractiveness cues and an organismal state of high fecundity, both of which are created by lowered insulin signaling in the fat body and increased insulin signaling in late follicle cells.'
 'In this study, we show that the combined inactivation of Rb and p53 pathways is sufficient to suppress the physiological cell death of mammary involution in mice. Furthermore, concomitant inactivation of all three pathways in mammary epithelium has an additive effect on tumor latency and predisposes highly penetrant, metastatic adenocarcinomas. The tumors are poorly differentiated and have histologic features that are common among human Brca1-mutated tumors, including heterogeneous morphology, metaplasia, and necrosis. Gene expression analyses demonstrate that the tumors share attributes of both Basal-like and Claudin-low signatures, two molecular subtypes encompassed by the broader, triple-negative class defined by clinical markers. Our findings illustrate the compounding effect of acquiring multiple tumor suppressor mutations during tumor evolution and underscore the distinct requirements of each of these canonical tumor suppressor proteins.'
 'Pathogen-associated secretion systems translocate numerous effector proteins into eukaryotic host cells to coordinate cellular processes important for infection. Spatiotemporal regulation is therefore important for modulating distinct activities of effectors at different stages of infection. Here we provide the first evidence of “metaeffector ,” a designation for an effector protein that regulates the function of another effector within the host cell. Legionella LubX protein functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase that hijacks the host proteasome to specifically target the bacterial effector protein SidH for degradation. Delayed delivery of LubX to the host cytoplasm leads to the shutdown of SidH within the host cells at later stages of infection. This demonstrates a sophisticated level of coevolution between eukaryotic cells and L . pneumophila involving an effector that functions as a key regulator to temporally coordinate the function of a cognate effector protein. '
 ' Gene expression data from time-series experiments are widely used to infer regulatory interactions among genes. However, the commonly-made assumption that mRNA abundance is a good proxy for protein concentrations is often not valid. Moreover, the activity of the gene expression machinery is often neglected. In this study, we systematically investigate the importance of these assumptions and propose corrections to improve the quality of the models inferred from the data. We use the FliA-FlgM module of the E. coli motility network as a model system and find that the integration of protein concentrations and global physiological effects into the inference procedure significantly improves the identification of regulatory interactions and the quantitative predictive models of gene regulation. Our approach is applicable to a wide range of network inference problems in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic systems. '
 'Soil-transmitted helminths ( STHs ) are a group of parasitic worms that infect more than a billion people worldwide . The most common STHs are Ascaris lumbricoides , Trichuris trichiura , and hookworms . Preventive chemotherapy is the mainstay of STH control, but it does not prevent reinfection . In this study, we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to assess patterns and dynamics of STH reinfection after drug treatment. We found that reinfection rates were high for all three STHs, with 26% of people reinfected with A . lumbricoides , 68% with T . trichiura , and 30% with hookworms at 3 months posttreatment. Reinfection rates increased over time, reaching 94% for A . lumbricoides , 82% for T . trichiura , and 57% for hookworms at 12 months posttreatment. We also found that reinfection rates were positively correlated with pretreatment infection status. Our findings suggest that frequent anthelmintic drug administrations are needed to maximize the benefit of preventive chemotherapy. Integrated control approaches emphasizing health education and environmental sanitation are needed to interrupt transmission of STHs.'
 'Rabies is a deadly disease that can be prevented with prompt post-exposure prophylaxis ( PEP ). Unfortunately, life-saving vaccines and biologicals are often not accessible or affordable, especially to the poorest sectors of society who are most at risk and upon whom the largest burden of rabies falls. We analyzed different PEP vaccination regimens and evaluated their relative costs and benefits to bite victims and healthcare providers. We found PEP vaccination to be an extremely cost-effective intervention ( from $200 to less than $60/death averted ) . Switching from intramuscular ( IM ) administration of PEP to equally efficacious intradermal ( ID ) regimens was shown to result in significant savings in the volume of vaccine required to treat the same number of patients, which could mitigate vaccine shortages, and would dramatically reduce the costs of implementing PEP. We present financing mechanisms that would make PEP more affordable and accessible, could help subsidize the cost for those most in need, and could even support new and existing rabies control and prevention programs. We conclude that a universal switch to ID delivery would improve the affordability and accessibility of PEP for bite victims, leading to a likely reduction in human rabies deaths, as well as being economical for healthcare providers. '
 'This study examines the relationship between human T . b . rhodesiense infection and human infective and non-human T . brucei s . l . circulating in cattle at village level in Kaberamaido and Dokolo Districts, Uganda. The study was undertaken in villages that had reported a case of sleeping sickness in the six months prior to sample collection and those villages that had never reported a case of sleeping sickness. The sleeping sickness status of the villages had a significant effect with higher odds of infection in cattle from case than from non-case villages for T . brucei s . l . ( OR: 2 . 94 , 95%CI: 1 . 38–6 . 24 ) . Cattle age had a significant effect ( p<0 . 001 ) on the likelihood of T . brucei s . l . infection within cattle: cattle between 18–36 months ( OR: 3 . 51 , 95%CI: 1 . 63–7 . 51 ) and cattle over 36 months ( OR: 4 . 20 , 95%CI: 2 . 08–8 . 67 ) had significantly higher odds of T . brucei s . l . infection than cattle under 18 months of age . Furthermore , village human sleeping sickness status had a significant effect ( p<0 . 05 ) on the detection of T . b . rhodesiense in the village cattle herd , with significantly higher likelihood of T . b . rhodesiense in the village cattle of case villages ( OR: 25 , 95%CI: 1 . 2–520 . 71 ) . Overall a higher than average T . brucei s . l . prevalence ( >16 . 3% ) in a village herd over was associated with significantly higher likelihood of T . b . rhodesiense being detected in a herd ( OR: 25 , 95%CI: 1 . 2–520 . 71 ) .'
 'In this study, we investigated the role of HIF-1 in lifespan determination in C . elegans . We found that HIF-1 functions downstream of S6K to modulate DR-dependent lifespan extension in specific neurons and muscles via the IRE-1 ER stress pathway . Our results demonstrate a tissue-specific role for HIF-1 in the lifespan extension by DR involving the IRE-1 ER stress pathway.'
 'This study presents a genome-scale model of metabolism and macromolecular synthesis (ME-model) for the acetogen Clostridium ljungdahlii. The model captures all major central metabolic, amino acid, nucleotide, lipid, major cofactors, and vitamin synthesis pathways, as well as pathways to synthesis RNA and protein molecules necessary to catalyze these reactions. The model accurately predicted secretion of acetate, ethanol, and glycerol during changing carbon and metal availability and revealed how protein allocation and media composition influence metabolic pathways and energy conservation in this model acetogen. The study provides new insights into the biology of acetogens and opens the window for advanced engineering designs.'
 'Arabidopsis thaliana cryptochrome 2 ( CRY2 ) mediates light control of flowering time . The CRY2-interacting bHLH 1 ( CIB1 ) specifically interacts with CRY2 in response to blue light to activate the transcription of FT ( Flowering Locus T ) . In vitro , CIB1 binds to the canonical E-box ( CACGTG , also referred to as G-box ) with much higher affinity than its interaction with non-canonical E-box ( CANNTG ) DNA sequences . However , in vivo , CIB1 binds to the chromatin region of the FT promoter , which only contains the non-canonical E-boxes. Here , we show that CRY2 also interacts with at least CIB5 , in response to blue light , but not in darkness or in response to other wavelengths of light . Our genetic analysis demonstrates that CIB1 , CIB2 , CIB4 , and CIB5 act redundantly to activate the transcription of FT and that they are positive regulators of CRY2 mediated flowering . More importantly , CIB1 and other CIBs proteins form heterodimers , and some of the heterodimers have a higher binding affinity than the CIB homodimers to the non-canonical E-box in the in vitro DNA-binding assays . This result explains why in vitro CIB1 and other CIBs bind to the canonical E-box ( G-box ) with a higher affinity , whereas they are all associated with the non-canonical E-boxes at the FT promoter in vivo . Consistent with the hypothesis that different CIBs play similar roles in the CRY2-midiated blue light signaling , the expression of CIB proteins is regulated specifically by blue light . Our study demonstrates that CIBs function redundantly in regulating CRY2-dependent flowering , and that different CIBs form heterodimers to interact with the non-canonical E-box DNA in vivo .'
 'Enteric bacterial pathogens cause foodborne disease, which is a major economic and health burden. EHEC is a severe bloody diarrhea-causing pathogen that can also cause a potentially fatal kidney disease called HUS. EHEC and other enteric pathogens use a type III secretion system (T3SS) to inject virulence proteins (effectors) into host cells. In this study, the authors identified two T3SS effectors, NleH1 and NleH2, that bind to the human ribosomal protein S3 (RPS3), a subunit of NF-κB transcriptional complexes. NleH1 and NleH2 are autophosphorylated Ser/Thr protein kinases, but their binding to RPS3 is independent of kinase activity. NleH1 repressed the transcription of a RPS3/NF-κB-dependent reporter plasmid, while NleH2 stimulated RPS3-dependent transcription. The authors suggest that NleH may disrupt host innate immune responses by binding to a cofactor of host transcriptional complexes. This study provides new insights into the mechanisms by which EHEC and other enteric pathogens use T3SS effectors to disrupt host innate immune responses.'
 'High-altitude hypoxia is a severe physiological stress that has led to unique adaptations in the Andean and Tibetan populations. We used genome scans to identify genes with evidence of positive natural selection in these two populations. We found that several key HIF-regulatory and targeted genes are responsible for adaptation to high altitude in Andeans and Tibetans, and several different chromosomal regions are implicated in the putative response to selection. These data suggest a genetic role in high-altitude adaptation and provide a basis for future genotype/phenotype association studies necessary to confirm the role of selection-nominated candidate genes and gene regions in adaptation to altitude.'
 'Machupo virus ( MACV ) is a New World arenavirus that causes Bolivian hemorrhagic fever ( BHF ). We previously reported that a recombinant MACV expressing glycoprotein from the Candid#1 ( Cd#1 ) vaccine strain of Junin virus ( JUNV ) is completely attenuated in a murine model and protects animals from lethal challenge with MACV . In this study, we rescued several recombinant MACVs expressing the ectodomain of GPC from Cd#1 either alone ( MCg1 ) , along with the TMD F438I substitution ( MCg2 ) , or with the TMD of Cd#1 ( MCg3 ) . All rMACVs exhibited similar growth curves in cultured cells . In mice , the MCg1 displayed significant reduction in lethality as compared with rMACV . The MCg1 was detected in brains and spleens of MCg1-infected mice and the infection was associated with tissue inflammation . On the other hand , all animals survived MCg2 and MCg3 infection without detectable levels of virus in various organs while producing neutralizing antibody against Cd#1 . Overall our data suggest the indispensable role of each GPC domain in the full attenuation and immunogenicity of rMACV/Cd#1 GPC .'
 'Dengue is a significant public health threat with an estimated 50 to 100 million cases per year and around 3 billion people at risk of infection. Dengue is caused by the dengue virus, a group of single-stranded RNA viruses belonging to the Flaviviridae family and Flavivirus genus. The four serotypes of dengue virus are transmitted to humans primarily via Aedes aegypti mosquitoes. Infection can result in a broad spectrum of disease syndromes ranging from an asymptomatic or mild infection to the potentially fatal dengue haemorrhagic fever and dengue shock syndrome. There is currently no licensed dengue vaccine available and the only means of prevention is through surveillance and vector control. An early and accurate laboratory diagnosis of dengue could assist clinical management. Virus isolation coupled with immunofluorescence is an effective technique for early diagnosis of dengue, but it is time-consuming and due to the short duration of viraemia is only sensitive for samples taken up to 5 days post-onset of infection. Real time RT-PCR has proven to be a highly sensitive and powerful alternative to virus isolation as it has a wider window of detection and allows for both quantitation of viral loads and serotyping. Relatively inexpensive serological tests, and in particular rapid point-of-care devices, have become more widely used in endemic settings. The Dengue Early Rapid is a 15-minute immunochromatographic test designed for the qualitative detection of dengue NS1 antigen in human serum. Although not as sensitive as PCR or ELISA, ICTs are quick and require only a minimum of technical expertise to perform. Here, we report on the clinical performance of a new commercial dengue NS1 detection test, evaluated both alone and in combination with a dengue IgM and IgG rapid test, at two separate study sites in Southeast Asia. The Dengue Early Rapid test had a sensitivity of 69.2% and specificity of 96% compared to RT-PCR. When the Dengue Early Rapid test was used in combination with the IgM/IgG test, the sensitivity increased to 93%.0%. The study highlights that using dengue NS1 antigen detection in combination with anti-glycoprotein E IgM and IgG serology can significantly increase the sensitivity of acute dengue diagnosis and extends the possible window of detection to include very early acute samples and enhances the clinical utility of rapid immunochromatographic testing for dengue.'
 'Toll/interleukin-1 receptor ( TIR ) domains in Toll-like receptors are essential for initiating and propagating the eukaryotic innate immune signaling cascade . Here , we investigate TirS , a Staphylococcus aureus TIR mimic that is part of a novel bacterial invasion mechanism . Its ectopic expression in eukaryotic cells inhibited TLR signaling , downregulating the NF-kB pathway through inhibition of TLR2 , TLR4 , TLR5 , and TLR9 . Skin lesions induced by the S . aureus knockout tirS mutant increased in a mouse model compared with wild-type and restored strains even though the tirS-mutant and wild-type strains did not differ in bacterial load . TirS also was associated with lower neutrophil and macrophage activity , confirming a central role in virulence attenuation through local inflammatory responses . TirS invariably localizes within the staphylococcal chromosomal cassettes ( SCC ) containing the fusC gene for fusidic acid resistance but not always carrying the mecA gene . Of note , sub-inhibitory concentration of fusidic acid increased tirS expression . Epidemiological studies identified no link between this effector and clinical presentation but showed a selective advantage with a SCCmec element with SCC fusC/tirS . Thus , two key traits determining the success and spread of bacterial infections are linked .'
 'Protein N-terminal acetylation is a common modification found in many organisms. It is a co-translational process that occurs during protein synthesis. The N-terminal methionine (iMet) is removed from the nascent polypeptide chain by methionine aminopeptidases, and the acetylation of the amino-terminus is catalyzed by N-terminal acetyl transferases (NATs). The biological function of N-terminal acetylation is not well understood, but it has been shown to play a role in protein-protein interactions and protein localization. In this study, the authors analyzed the N-terminal peptides of proteins extracted from Drosophila Kc167 cells and found that N-terminal acetylation occurs in insects with a similar frequency as in humans. They also identified a determinant, the (X)PX rule, that prevents acetylation under all circumstances. The authors propose that this rule can be used to genetically engineer a protein to study the biological relevance of the presence or absence of an acetyl group. They applied the rule by expressing mutated proteins as transgenes in cell lines and in flies. The study provides a straightforward strategy to systematically study the functional relevance of N-terminal acetylation in cells and whole organisms.'
 'Exosomes are small vesicles that are released by cells and contain various proteins, lipids, and RNA molecules. They play important roles in intercellular communication and can be used by viruses to transfer their genetic materials to new cells. In this study, we found that EV71 infection upregulated exosome secretion and resulted in differential packaging of the viral genomic RNA and miR-146a into exosomes. We provided evidence showing that miR-146a was preferentially enriched in exosomes while the viral RNA was not in infected cells. Moreover, the exosomal viral RNA could be transferred to and replicate in a recipient cell while the exosomal miR-146a suppressed type I interferon response in the target cell, thus facilitating the viral replication. We also found that the IFN-stimulated gene factors, BST-2/tetherin, were involved in regulating EV71-induced upregulation of exosome secretion. Importantly, in vivo study showed that exosome-containing viral RNA exhibited differential tissue accumulation as compared to the free virus particles. Our findings provide evidence that exosomes secreted by EV71-infected cells selectively packaged high level miR-146a that can be functionally transferred to and facilitate exosomal EV71 RNA to replicate in the recipient cells by suppressing type I interferon response.'
 'Gene expression is a stochastic process that involves the interaction of regulatory elements and the promoter. The interaction between regulatory elements and the promoter can occur in different ways, such as side-by-side loops, nested loops, and alternating loops. These different interaction patterns can affect the mean expression level and the expression noise. In this study, we developed a mechanistic model that maps the interaction patterns between regulatory elements and the promoter into a 4-state stochastic model of gene expression. We found that nested loops enhance gene expression and reduce expression noise, while alternating loops have the opposite effect. We also compared the effects of facilitated tracking and direct looping on gene expression and found that facilitated tracking performs better than direct looping in controlling mean expression and tuning expression noise. However, this control or tuning is distance-dependent, remarkable for moderate loop lengths, and there is a limit loop length such that the difference in effect between two communication forms almost disappears. Our results suggest that living organisms or cells would use the facilitated-tracking mechanism to deal with information about their environments.'
 'We have developed a framework for analyzing the dynamic behavior of gene transcription networks that explicitly accounts for retroactivity, a phenomenon that influences the dynamic performance of a module upon connection to other modules. We have established three retroactivity matrices: internal, scaling, and mixing retroactivity, which can be computed from macroscopic parameters and from the modules' topology. We have illustrated the implications of internal, scaling, and mixing retroactivity on the performance of recurrent network motifs, including negative autoregulation, combinatorial regulation, two-gene clocks, the toggle switch, and the single-input motif. We have also provided a quantitative metric that determines how robust the dynamic behavior of a module is to interconnection with other modules. This metric can be employed to evaluate the extent of modularity of natural networks and to establish concrete design guidelines to minimize retroactivity between modules in synthetic systems.'
 'A mechanistic model of cancer response to treatment has been developed to estimate the cell killing efficacy of various cisplatin-based doublet regimens. The model incorporates the cancer related mechanism of uncontrolled proliferation, population heterogeneity, hypoxia and treatment resistance. The methodology is based on the provision of tumor volumetric data at two time points, before and after or during treatment. A thorough sensitivity analysis based on one-factor-at-a-time and latin hypercube sampling/partial rank correlation coefficient approaches has established the volume growth rate and the growth fraction at diagnosis as key features for more accurate estimates. The methodology is applied on the retrospective data of thirteen patients with non-small cell lung cancer who received cisplatin in combination with gemcitabine, vinorelbine or docetaxel in the neoadjuvant context. The selection of model input values has been guided by a comprehensive literature survey on cancer-specific proliferation kinetics. The latin hypercube sampling has been recruited to compensate for patient-specific uncertainties. Concluding, the present work provides a quantitative framework for the estimation of the in-vivo cell-killing ability of various chemotherapies. Correlation studies of such estimates with the molecular profile of patients could serve as a basis for reliable personalized predictions.'
 'The Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome ( AHDS ) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by severe intellectual disability, delayed development, muscle hypotonia, and spastic paraplegia. The underlying cause of AHDS is a mutation in the monocarboxylate transporter 8 ( MCT8 ) gene, which encodes a protein that transports thyroid hormones across cell membranes. In order to study the pathophysiological mechanisms of AHDS, researchers have generated an MCT8 knockout mouse model. However, these mice did not exhibit the neurological and behavioral symptoms of AHDS patients. To address this issue, researchers have generated an MCT8 knockout zebrafish model using the ZFN-mediated targeted gene editing system. The zebrafish model exhibited neurological and behavioral deficiencies, including reduced locomotor activity, altered response to external light and dark transitions, and increased sleep time. These deficiencies were associated with altered expression of myelin-related genes and neuron-specific deficiencies in circuit formation. Time-lapse imaging of single-axon arbors and synapses in live mct8−/− larvae revealed a reduction in filopodia dynamics and axon branching in sensory neurons and decreased synaptic density in motor neurons. These phenotypes enabled assessment of the therapeutic potential of three TH analogs that can enter the cells in the absence of MCT8. The TH analogs restored the myelin and axon outgrowth deficiencies in mct8−/− larvae. These findings suggest a mechanism by which MCT8 regulates neural circuit assembly, ultimately mediating sensory and motor control of behavioral performance. The authors propose that the administration of TH analogs early during embryo development can specifically reduce neurological damage in AHDS patients.'
 'Natural selection drives populations towards higher fitness, but crossing fitness valleys or plateaus may facilitate progress up a rugged fitness landscape involving epistasis. We investigate quantitatively the effect of subdividing an asexual population on the time it takes to cross a fitness valley or plateau. We focus on a generic and minimal model that includes only population subdivision into equivalent demes connected by global migration, and does not require significant size changes of the demes, environmental heterogeneity or specific geographic structure. We determine the optimal speedup of valley or plateau crossing that can be gained by subdivision, if the process is driven by the deme that crosses fastest. We show that isolated demes have to be in the sequential fixation regime for subdivision to significantly accelerate crossing. Using Markov chain theory, we obtain analytical expressions for the conditions under which optimal speedup is achieved: valley or plateau crossing by the subdivided population is then as fast as that of its fastest deme. We verify our analytical predictions through stochastic simulations. We demonstrate that subdivision can substantially accelerate the crossing of fitness valleys and plateaus in a wide range of parameters extending beyond the optimal window. We study the effect of varying the degree of subdivision of a population, and investigate the trade-off between the magnitude of the optimal speedup and the width of the parameter range over which it occurs. Our results, obtained for fitness valleys and plateaus, also hold for weakly beneficial intermediate mutations. Finally, we extend our work to the case of a population connected by migration to one or several smaller islands. Our results demonstrate that subdivision with migration alone can significantly accelerate the crossing of fitness valleys and plateaus, and shed light onto the quantitative conditions necessary for this to occur. '
 'The nuclear pore complex ( NPC ) is a crucial gateway for material transport across the nuclear envelope ( NE ) . The transport process is highly selective and happens on the order of milliseconds and tens of nanometers . The NPC is composed of about 30 distinct proteins called nucleoporins ( nups ) . The NPC is a highly conserved structure from yeast to vertebrates . The transport mechanism remains elusive and proposed models are incomplete and sometimes contradictory . We have developed a coarse-grained model of the NPC structure that mimics nucleocytoplasmic transport ( NCT ) . The model predicts that the first-passage time of a 15 nm cargo-complex is about 2.6±0.13 ms with an inverse Gaussian distribution for statistically adequate number of independent Brownian dynamics simulations . The cargo-complex is primarily attached to the channel wall where it interacts with the FG-layer as it passes through the central channel . The kap-FG hydrophobic interaction is highly dynamic and fast , which ensures an efficient translocation through the NPC . Almost all eight hydrophobic binding spots on kap-β are occupied simultaneously during transport . Furthermore , cytoplasmic filaments-deficient NPCs show a high degree of permeability to inert cargos , implying the defining role of cytoplasmic filaments in the selectivity barrier . The model can be used to examine different hypotheses about transport as well as examining different factors that alter transport .', Keyword: 'nuclear pore complex', 'nucleocytoplasmic transport', 'coarse-grained model', 'biophysics simulations', 'biomechanics'
'Staphylococcus aureus is a common bacterial pathogen that causes a wide range of infections in humans. Biofilms, which are communities of bacteria that adhere to surfaces and are surrounded by a protective matrix, are often associated with chronic S . aureus infections. In this study, the authors discovered a novel extracellular fibril structure that promotes S . aureus biofilm integrity. These fibers are composed of small peptides called phenol soluble modulins ( PSMs ) that are involved in biofilm disassembly. The authors found that mutants unable to produce PSMs were susceptible to biofilm disassembly by matrix degrading enzymes and mechanical stress. The authors also found that soluble PSM peptides disperse biofilms while polymerized peptides do not. These findings suggest that PSMs' aggregation into amyloid fibers modulates their biological activity and role in biofilms. This work could lead to new approaches in treating persistent biofilm associated infections.'
 'The Type II Secretion System ( T2SS ) is a molecular machine that drives the secretion of fully-folded protein substrates across the bacterial outer membrane . The secretin is an integral , multimeric outer membrane protein that forms the secretion pore . We have identified three distinct forms of T2SSs based on the sequence characteristics of their secretin pores . Two of these, the Klebsiella-type and Vibrio-type , are further distinguished by the pilotin that mediates their transport and assembly into the outer membrane . We have determined the crystal structure of the novel pilotin AspS from Vibrio cholerae , demonstrating convergent evolution wherein AspS is functionally equivalent and yet structurally unrelated to the pilotins found in Klebsiella and other bacteria . AspS binds to a specific targeting sequence in the Vibrio-type secretins , enhances the kinetics of secretin assembly , and homologs of AspS are found in all species of Vibrio as well those few strains of Escherichia and Shigella that have acquired a Vibrio-type T2SS .'
 'Burkholderia pseudomallei is a bacterium that can cause the disease melioidosis in humans. It is mostly found in soil and water, but can also infect humans. The bacterium uses iron to survive and grow, and it is thought that iron acquisition systems are important for its virulence. However, a previous study found that a clinical isolate of B. pseudomallei that lacked the malleobactin gene cluster was still virulent in a murine model of melioidosis. This study aimed to investigate the contribution of different iron acquisition systems to virulence in B. pseudomallei. The study found that none of the systems were required for lethality in the murine model, and provided evidence for a ferritin-iron utilization system. These findings suggest that B. pseudomallei may have multiple iron acquisition systems that contribute to its virulence, and that the ferritin-iron utilization system may be important for its survival in vivo. The study also highlights the importance of understanding the mechanisms of iron acquisition in bacterial pathogens, as it may lead to the development of new therapeutic strategies for treating infections caused by these organisms.'
 'In-utero sensitisation to schistosome antigens occurs in up to 50% of offspring born to women with schistosomiasis during pregnancy . Here we examined effects of praziquantel treatment of S . mansoni during pregnancy on prevalence of S . mansoni infection and immune responsiveness among offspring at age five years . We found no evidence that maternal S . mansoni infection and its treatment during pregnancy influence prevalence and intensity of S . mansoni infection or effector immune response to S . mansoni infection among offspring at age five years, but the observed effects on IL-10 responses to SWA suggest that maternal S . mansoni and its treatment during pregnancy may affect immunoregulatory responsiveness in childhood schistosomiasis . This might have implications for pathogenesis of the disease .'
 'Hox proteins are transcription factors that play a crucial role in controlling morphogenesis along the anterior-posterior body axis of animals. These proteins regulate distinct sets of target genes in a highly localized manner, often only in a single cell. Here, we analyze the regulation of the cell death gene reaper ( rpr ) by the Hox protein Deformed ( Dfd ) and suggest that local activation of rpr expression in the anterior part of the maxillary segment is achieved through a combinatorial interaction of Dfd with at least eight functionally diverse transcriptional regulators on a minimal enhancer. This suggests that context-dependent combinations of Hox proteins and other transcription factors on small, modular Hox response elements could be responsible for the proper spatio-temporal expression of Hox targets. Our data support the idea that the combinatorial activity of Hox proteins and diverse transcriptional regulators on small regulatory elements is responsible for the spatially and temporarily restricted expression of Hox target genes in vivo. In addition, our data show that even small Hox-dependent enhancers are complex and integrate diverse regulatory inputs, which result in precise spatio-temporal expression of Hox target genes.'
 'The antiproliferative response to anticancer treatment is the result of concurrent responses in all cell cycle phases, extending over several cell generations. In the proposed experimental/computational approach, the contemporary use of time-lapse live cell microscopy and flow cytometric data supported the computer rendering of the proliferative process through the cell cycle and subsequent generations during/after treatment. The effects of treatments were modelled with modules describing the functional activity of the main pathways causing arrest, repair and cell death in each phase. A framework modelling environment was created, enabling us to apply different types of modules in each phase and test models at the complexity level justified by the available data. We challenged the method with time-course measures taken in parallel with flow cytometry and time-lapse live cell microscopy in X-ray-treated human ovarian cancer cells, spanning a wide range of doses. The most suitable model of the treatment, including the dose-response of each effect, was progressively built, combining modules with a rational strategy and fitting simultaneously all data of different doses and platforms. The final model gave for the first time the complete rendering in silico of the cycling process following X-ray exposure, providing separate and quantitative measures of the dose-dependence of G1, S and G2M checkpoint activities in subsequent generations, reconciling known effects of ionizing radiations and new insights in a unique scenario.'
 'Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) is a crucial mechanism by which bacteria increase genetic variability. However, the incorporation of foreign DNA may constitute a potential perturbation for the regulation of the core genome, resulting in a significant fitness cost. The H-NS protein is involved in the adaptive response of bacterial cells to changes in environmental factors such as temperature or osmolarity. It targets both core genome and HGT genes and silences gene expression in response to external stimuli. In some instances, H-NS-mediated silencing requires the participation of proteins of the Hha/YmoA family. In this study, we provide evidence that plasmid-encoded H-NS-like proteins have evolved to selectively target HGT and not core genome DNA. We also show that chromosomally-encoded H-NS targets both HGT and core genomic DNA, but differentially modulates them by using Hha-like proteins to specifically silence HGT genes. These findings suggest that in enteric bacteria the H-NS modulator may have evolved to discriminate between vertically and horizontally inherited DNA sequences, efficiently silencing the latter. This feature could provide a fitness advantage by allowing the presence of a large number of silent virulence genes to be available, without interfering with the regulation of the bacterial core genome.'
 'HIV-1 vaccines have failed to elicit neutralizing antibodies ( Nabs ) that can protect against diverse HIV-1 subtypes . One relevant setting to study the development of a strong, cross-reactive Nab response is HIV-1 superinfection ( SI ) . SI has previously been shown to lead to a broader and more potent Nab response when compared to single infection, but it is unclear whether SI also impacts epitope specificity and if the epitopes targeted after SI differ from those targeted after single infection . Here, the post-SI Nab responses were examined from 21 Kenyan women who were collectively exposed to subtypes A, C, and D and superinfected after a median time of ~1.07 years following initial infection. Plasma samples were chosen for analysis at a median time point ~2.72 years post-SI. Because previous studies of singly infected populations with broad and potent Nab responses have shown that the majority of their neutralizing activity can be mapped to 4 main epitopes on the HIV-1 Envelope, we focused on these targets, which include the CD4-binding site, a V1/V2 glycan, the N332 supersite in V3, and the membrane proximal external region of gp41. Using standard epitope mapping techniques that were applied to the previous cohorts, the present study demonstrates that SI did not induce a dominant Nab response to any one of these epitopes in the 21 women. Computational sera delineation analyses also suggested that 20 of the 21 superinfected women’s Nab responses could not be ascribed a single specificity with high confidence. These data are consistent with a model in which SI with diverse subtypes promotes the development of a broad polyclonal Nab response, and thus would provide support for vaccine designs using multivalent HIV immunogens to elicit a diverse repertoire of Nabs.'
 'Linear mixed models ( LMMs ) have recently gained popularity for modelling population substructure and relatedness in genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ). In this study, we compared the performance of several LMM approaches ( and software implementations ) via their application to a GWAS of visceral leishmaniasis in 348 Brazilian families comprising 3626 individuals ( 1972 genotyped ). The implementations differ in precise details of methodology implemented and through various user-chosen options such as the method and number of SNPs used to estimate the kinship matrix. We investigated sensitivity to these choices and the success ( or otherwise ) of the approaches in controlling the overall genome-wide error-rate for both real and simulated phenotypes. We compared the LMM results to those obtained using traditional family-based association tests ( based on transmission of alleles within pedigrees ) and to alternative approaches implemented in the software packages MQLS , ROADTRIPS and MASTOR. We found strong concordance between the results from different LMM approaches, and all were successful in controlling the genome-wide error rate ( except for some approaches when applied naively to longitudinal data with many repeated measures ). We also found high correlation between LMMs and alternative approaches ( apart from transmission-based approaches when applied to SNPs with small or non-existent effects ). We conclude that LMM approaches perform well in comparison to competing approaches. Given their strong concordance, in most applications, the choice of precise LMM implementation cannot be based on power/type I error considerations but must instead be based on considerations such as speed and ease-of-use.'
 'Transient associations among neurons are thought to underlie memory and behavior . However, little is known about how such associations occur or how they can be identified. Here we recorded ongoing local field potential ( LFP ) activity at multiple sites within the cortex of awake monkeys and organotypic cultures of cortex . We show that when the composite activity of a local neuronal group exceeds a threshold, its activity pattern, as reflected in the LFP, occurs without distortion at other cortex sites via fast synaptic transmission. These large-amplitude LFPs, which we call coherence potentials, extend up to hundreds of milliseconds and mark periods of loss-less spread of temporal and amplitude information much like action potentials at the single-cell level. However, coherence potentials have an additional degree of freedom in the diversity of their waveforms, which provides a high-dimensional parameter for encoding information and allows identification of particular associations. Such nonlinear behavior is analogous to the spread of ideas and behaviors in social networks.'
 'In this study, we show that the yeast Rab GTPase Sec4p is involved in both polarized exocytosis and endocytosis. We found that Sec4p binds to Las17p, a yeast Wiskott—Aldrich Syndrome protein (WASp) homologue, in a complex with Sla1p and Sla2p during actin patch assembly. Mutations that inactivate Sec4p or its guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) Sec2p inhibit actin patch formation, whereas the activating sec4-Q79L mutation accelerates patch assembly. In vitro assays of Arp2/3-dependent actin polymerization established that GTPγS-Sec4p overrides Sla1p inhibition of Las17p-dependent actin nucleation. These results support a model in which Sec4p relocates along the plasma membrane from polarized sites of exocytic vesicle fusion to nascent sites of endocytosis. Activated Sec4p then promotes actin polymerization and triggers compensatory endocytosis, which controls surface expansion and kinetically refines cell polarization.'
 'Miltefosine, an anti-cancer drug that has been successfully repositioned for treatment of Leishmania infections, has recently shown promising effects against Schistosoma spp targeting all life cycle stages of the parasite. In the current study, we examined the effect of treating Schistosoma mansoni adult worms with miltefosine on exposure of worm surface antigens in vitro. In an indirect immunofluorescence assay, rabbit anti-S. mansoni adult worm homogenate and anti-S. mansoni infection antisera gave strong immunofluorescence of the S. mansoni adult worm surface after treatment with miltefosine. Rabbit antibodies that recognised surface antigens exposed on miltefosine-treated worms were recovered by elution off the worm surface in low pH buffer and were used in a western immunoblotting assay to identify antigenic targets in a homogenate extract of adult worms (SmWH). Four proteins reacting with the antibodies in immunoblots were purified and proteomic analysis (MS/MS) combined with specific immunoblotting indicated they were the S. mansoni proteins: fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase (SmFBPA), Sm22.6, alkaline phosphatase and malate dehydrogenase. These antibodies were also found to bind to the surface of 3-hour schistosomula and induce immune agglutination of the parasites, suggesting they may have a role in immune protection. This study reveals a novel mode of action of miltefosine as an anti-schistosome agent. The immune-dependent hypothesis we investigated has previously been lent credence with praziquantel (PZQ), whereby treatment unmasks parasite surface antigens not normally exposed to the host during infection. Antigens involved in this molecular mechanism could have potential as intervention targets and antibodies against these antigens may act to increase the drug’s anti-parasite efficacy and be involved in the development of resistance to re-infection. '
 'In neurons, the polarized trafficking of vesicle-bound membrane proteins gives rise to the distinct molecular composition and functional properties of axons and dendrites. Despite their central role in shaping neuronal form and function, surprisingly little is known about the molecular processes that mediate polarized targeting of neuronal proteins. Here, we show that Myosin VI, a minus-end-directed motor, plays a vital role in the enrichment of proteins on the surface of axons. Engineering non-neuronal proteins to interact with Myosin VI causes them to become highly concentrated at the axonal surface in dissociated rat cortical neurons. Furthermore, disruption of either Myosin VI function or expression leads to aberrant dendritic localization of axonal proteins. Myosin VI mediates the enrichment of proteins on the axonal surface at least in part by stimulating dendrite-specific endocytosis, a mechanism that has been shown to underlie the localization of many axonal proteins. In addition, a version of Channelrhodopsin 2 that was engineered to bind to Myosin VI is concentrated at the surface of the axon of cortical neurons in mice in vivo, suggesting that it could be a useful tool for probing circuit structure and function. Together, our results indicate that myosins help shape the polarized distributions of both axonal and dendritic proteins.'
 'The idea that complexity leads to stability in ecosystems has been challenged in recent years. A new study shows that this assumption is not always true. The study found that the existence of a feasible equilibrium, where all species have positive abundances, vanishes in species-rich systems. This means that the stability of ecosystems cannot be guaranteed simply by increasing the number of species. The study also found that weak interactions can increase stability in structured ecosystems. The authors suggest that a better understanding of ecosystem dynamics requires focusing on the interplay between interaction strength and network architecture.'
 'Vibrio cholerae is a bacterial pathogen that causes diarrhea in humans and colonizes the chitinous exoskeleton of zooplankton. The bacterial protein GbpA is responsible for binding to both marine chitin and mammalian intestinal mucin. Structural studies reveal that GbpA has an unusual four-domain structure, with domains 1 and 4 showing structural homology to chitin binding domains. GbpA binds to GlcNAc oligosaccharides and domains 1 and 4 are crucial for mucin binding and intestinal colonization. The first three domains of GbpA are required for colonization in a mouse infection model. These results explain how GbpA provides structural/functional modular interactions between Vibrio cholerae, intestinal epithelium, and chitinous exoskeletons.'
 'Sulforaphane (SFN), a natural product found in cruciferous vegetables, blocks HIV infection in primary macrophages but not in primary T cells. SFN activates the transcription factor nuclear erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), which is known to increase resistance to oxidative stress. HIV infection is blocked after reverse transcription but before the formation of 2-LTR circles. This work shows that HIV is blocked through Nrf2 and highlights a novel way to trigger this inhibition.'
 'Chagas disease is a devastating disease caused by the trypanosomatid protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi. It is endemic in 18 countries of Central and South America, putting 120 million people at risk, with an estimated 16–18 million people currently infected. The two available drugs used to fight T . cruzi parasites during the acute stage are benznidazole ( BZN ) and nifurtimox. These drugs have toxic side effects and are not always effective. There is no drug available to treat the chronic stage of Chagas disease. Though some studies suggest that treatment with either BZN or nifurtimox decreases parasite load and slows disease progression, treatment of the chronic stage with these compounds is not officially recommended. A need for development of new anti-T . cruzi compounds targeting the acute and/or chronic stages of the disease is therefore urgent. The T . cruzi life cycle requires both an insect and a mammalian host. In the latter, the parasite development involves two stages: the amastigote form ( intracellular parasites actively dividing within the cytoplasm of infected cells ) and the trypomastigote form ( free motile parasites that are released upon cell rupture into the blood and are able to infect cells ). Compounds with curative properties will be efficient if they target either free trypomastigotes to inhibit the re-invasion of new cells, or intracellularly dividing amastigotes to prevent the release of new infective parasites. Leishmania is a kinetoplastid parasite related to T . cruzi and the causative agent of leishmaniasis, a disease whose manifestations in humans range from mild cutaneous and mucocutaneous lesions to fatal visceral infections. Among the many species responsible for cutaneous leishmaniasis, L . major of the Old World, is prevalent in Europe, Asia and Africa and L . amazonensis of the New World, extends from Southern Texas in North America to Brazil in South America. These two species diverged from each other 40–80 million years ago, leading to significant differences in host-parasite interactions and hence response to drugs. Human infection initiates with the bite of a sandfly that deposits non-dividing metacyclic promastigotes into the host skin. The parasites are then taken up by professional phagocytes, differentiate to obligate intracellular amastigotes and multiply within an acidified phagolysosome, known as the parasitophorous vacuole. They eventually rupture the cell and spread further to uninfected cells. Therefore effective drugs should target the intravacuolar dividing parasites. Pentavalent antimony is still widely used to treat leishmaniasis, but drug resistance has appeared. Currently, the efficacy of liposomal Amphotericin B injected in mono- and combination therapies is being evaluated and has displayed 90% of cure rates in combination with oral Miltefosine for visceral disease. However, some cutaneous leishmaniasis are refractory and other drug treatments have 50% cure rates. Screening libraries of chemical compounds against a standardized highly reproducible simple assay, or high throughput screening ( HTS ), offers an important tool in accelerating the discovery of new leads against parasitic diseases. This strategy's rationale is based on the assumption that screening of molecules with drug-like properties and highly diverse three-dimensional structures could allow the discovery of attractive new targets. A transgenic T . cruzi strain expressing the reporter enzyme β-galactosidase ( β-gal ) from Escherichia coli has been engineered by Buckner et al. [7]. This strain allows simple detection of parasite growth by measuring the β-gal activity, which correlates with parasite numbers. Other parasites expressing β-gal, such as Toxoplasma gondii, have been successfully used for screening compounds [8], [9]. In this study, we have optimized a whole-cell-based assay for HTS using the T . cruzi β-gal strain and screened a 2000-compound library to discover new molecules with activity against T . cruzi. We identified three compounds which inhibit intracellular replication of amastigotes in the nanomolar range and low toxicity on mammalian cells. These compounds present different mechanisms of action on intracellular proliferation
 'Bistability' refers to a phenomenon in which a system can exist in two stable states, and switching between these states requires an external stimulus. This phenomenon is observed in many biological systems, such as those involved in cell fate specification, cell cycle regulation, and apoptosis. Mathematical tools, such as bifurcation theory, can be used to determine if a particular network is bistable. However, because the dynamical behavior of a network is dependent on the values of the system parameters, new bistable circuit architectures tend to be identified only slowly and on a network-by-network basis. Chemical reaction network theory (CRNT) offers a novel framework for the rapid identification of network topologies with the capacity for bistability. CRNT is applicable without specific knowledge of the system parameters. In this study, the authors applied CRNT to reaction network models representing a broad class of small gene regulatory networks (GRNs) consisting of two transcription factor (TF) -coding genes and their associated proteins. They found that there exist reaction rate constants leading to bistability in ∼90% of these GRN models, including several circuits that do not contain any of the TF cooperativity commonly associated with bistable systems. The authors also identified eleven minimal bistable networks, that is, bistable networks that do not contain within them a smaller bistable subnetwork. The large number of previously unknown bistable network topologies suggests that the capacity for switch-like behavior in GRNs arises with relative ease and is not easily lost through network evolution. The authors integrated publicly available protein-protein interaction, protein-DNA interaction, and gene expression data from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and identified several GRNs predicted to behave in a bistable fashion. The authors conclude that CRNT offers a powerful tool for the rapid identification of network topologies with the capacity for bistability, and that its application has unique predictive power to identify bistable modules in organisms that have not been fully explored from a functional genomics perspective. The authors suggest that CRNT can be used to simplify the study of complex regulatory networks, understand network evolution, and design new synthetic biological circuits.'
 'Lymphatic filariasis is a disease caused by parasitic worms that infect the lymphatic system, leading to swelling and disfigurement. The parasites are known to alter the lymphatic system, but it is not clear how they do this. In this study, researchers exposed human lymphatic endothelial cells to filarial antigens, live parasites, or infected patient serum. They found that live parasites or filarial antigens induced both significant LEC proliferation and differentiation into tube-like structures in vitro. Serum from patently infected individuals and those with longstanding chronic lymphatic obstruction induced significantly increased LEC proliferation compared to sera from uninfected individuals. Differentiation of LEC into tube-like networks was found to be associated with significantly increased levels of matrix metalloproteases and inhibition of their TIMP inhibitors. The data suggest that filarial parasites directly induce lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic differentiation and provide insight into the mechanisms underlying the pathology seen in lymphatic filariasis.'
 'Plant-pathogenic Xanthomonas bacteria secrete transcription activator-like effectors ( TALEs ) into host cells, where they act as transcriptional activators on plant target genes to support bacterial virulence. TALEs have a unique modular DNA-binding domain composed of tandem repeats. In this paper, we propose a novel approach for TALE target prediction to identify potential virulence targets. Our approach accounts for recent findings concerning TALE targeting, including frame-shift binding by repeats of aberrant lengths and the flexible strand orientation of target boxes relative to the transcription start of the downstream target gene. We benchmark the novel approach, termed PrediTALE, using RNA-seq data after Xanthomonas infection in rice, and find an overall improvement of prediction performance compared with previous approaches. Using PrediTALE, we are able to predict several novel putative virulence targets. However, we also observe that no target genes are predicted by any prediction tool for several TALEs, which we term orphan TALEs for this reason. We postulate that one explanation for orphan TALEs are incomplete gene annotations and, hence, propose to replace promoterome-wide by genome-wide scans for target boxes. We demonstrate that known targets from promoterome-wide scans may be recovered by genome-wide scans, whereas the latter, combined with RNA-seq data, are able to detect putative targets independent of existing gene annotations. '
 'The OmpR DNA binding protein of Gram-negative bacteria has the potential to govern collectives of genes whose membership is subject to change. This is because OmpR demonstrates only moderate specificity for its DNA targets, allowing new binding sites to arise de novo in relatively few mutagenic steps. Furthermore, OmpR has the potential to respond to more than one environmental signal, giving it the potential to participate in regulon evolution from the standpoint of regulatory signal reception. In this study, we found that OmpR binds best to DNA that has adopted a relaxed topology, both in vivo and in vitro. We propose that the ability of OmpR to recruit additional genes to its regulon arises from its modest requirements for specificity in its DNA targets with its preference for relaxed DNA allowing it to cooperate with DNA topology-based allostery to modulate transcription in response to acid stress. Our findings show that OmpR expression is regulated differently in S . Typhimurium and E . coli and that there are very large differences in the composition of the OmpR regulons in these bacterial species. We find that OmpR shows little DNA sequence specificity in its binding sites and propose that this makes OmpR particularly useful for bringing horizontally acquired genes into an established regulatory circuit encoded by the core genome.'
 'Two-component signaling systems are important for bacteria, archaea, and plants to sense and respond to environmental stimuli. These systems typically employ a sensory histidine kinase that phosphorylates a REC domain on a conserved aspartate (Asp) residue. However, some REC domains are missing this phosphorylatable Asp residue, which is surprising and raises questions about their functional roles and how they are regulated. Here, we compiled all deposited REC domains missing their phosphorylatable Asp residue, renamed them Aspartate-Less Receiver (ALR) domains, and analyzed their prevalence and functional roles. We found that ALR domains are surprisingly common and are enriched for when attached to more rare effector outputs. Analysis of our informatics and the available ALR atomic structures, combined with structural, biochemical, and genetic data of the ALR archetype RitR from Streptococcus pneumoniae presented here, suggest that ALRs have reorganized their active pockets to instead take on a constitutive regulatory role or accommodate input signals other than Asp phosphorylation, while largely retaining the canonical post-phosphorylation mechanisms and dimeric interface. This work defines ALRs as an atypical REC subclass and provides insights into shared mechanisms of activation between ALR and REC domains.'
 'The bacterial replication cycle is driven by the DnaA protein which cycles between the active ATP-bound form and the inactive ADP-bound form. It has been suggested that DnaA also is the main controller of initiation frequency. Initiation is thought to occur when enough ATP-DnaA has accumulated. In this work, we have performed cell cycle analysis of cells that contain a surplus of ATP-DnaA and asked whether initiation then occurs earlier. It does not. Cells with more than a 50% increase in the concentration of ATP-DnaA showed no changes in timing of replication. We suggest that although ATP-DnaA is the main actor in initiation of replication, its accumulation does not control the time of initiation. ATP-DnaA is the motor that drives the initiation process, but other factors will be required for the exact timing of initiation in response to the cell’s environment. We also investigated the in vivo roles of datA dependent DnaA inactivation ( DDAH ) and the DnaA-binding protein DiaA. Loss of DDAH affected the cell cycle machinery only during slow growth and made it sensitive to the concentration of DiaA protein. The result indicates that compromised cell cycle machines perform in a less robust manner.'
 'The rat demyelination ( dmy ) mutation is a unique model system for studying the maintenance of myelin in the central nervous system ( CNS ). In this study, we report the molecular characterization of this mutation and discuss the possible pathomechanisms underlying demyelination. By positional cloning, we found that a G-to-A transition, 177 bp downstream of exon 3 of the Mrs2 ( MRS2 magnesium homeostasis factor ( Saccharomyces cerevisiae ) ) gene, generated a novel splice acceptor site which resulted in functional inactivation of the mutant allele. Transgenic rescue with wild-type Mrs2-cDNA validated our findings. Mrs2 encodes an essential component of the major Mg2+ influx system in mitochondria of yeast as well as human cells. We showed that the dmy/dmy rats have major mitochondrial deficits with a markedly elevated lactic acid concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid, a 60% reduction in ATP, and increased numbers of mitochondria in the swollen cytoplasm of oligodendrocytes. MRS2-GFP recombinant BAC transgenic rats showed that MRS2 was dominantly expressed in neurons rather than oligodendrocytes and was ultrastructurally observed in the inner membrane of mitochondria. Our observations led to the conclusion that dmy/dmy rats suffer from a mitochondrial disease and that the maintenance of myelin has a different mechanism from its initial production. They also established that Mg2+ homeostasis in CNS mitochondria is essential for the maintenance of myelin.'
 'Leishmaniasis is a disease that affects 12 million people worldwide and is caused by the parasite Leishmania. The parasite can cause different clinical forms of the disease, including localized and diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis. In this study, the authors compared the proteomes of amastigotes isolated from BALB/c and BALB/c nude mice to study the effect of the host immune response on Leishmania proteins. They found that there were 44 differentially expressed proteins, including proteins related to oxidative/nitrosative stress and proteases. Some of these proteins correspond to known Leishmania virulence factors such as OPB and tryparedoxin peroxidase. The authors believe their study may allow the identification of potential virulence factors and ways of regulating their expression.'
 'Cryptococcosis is a life-threatening fungal infection that affects humans and animals. The causative agents of cryptococcosis are the species Cryptococcus neoformans and Cryptococcus gattii. The current study analyzed 498 isolates of C. neoformans and C. gattii from Thailand, including clinical, environmental, and veterinary sources. The majority of the isolates were C. neoformans molecular type VNI, regardless of their sources. The current study revealed a greater genetic diversity and a wider range of major molecular types being present among Thai cryptococcal isolates than previously reported. The study also identified the presence of C. gattii serotype B and C in Thailand, which had not been previously reported in the environment. The findings of this study provide valuable information for understanding the epidemiology and molecular diversity of cryptococcosis in Thailand.'
 'Scabies is a common skin infection caused by the Sarcoptes scabiei mite. It is a major public health burden, particularly in developing countries. Current treatments with topical agents and/or oral ivermectin are insufficient and drug resistance is emerging. Moxidectin (MOX), a macrocyclic lactone with better pharmacological profiles, may be a promising alternative. We used a porcine scabies model to evaluate the efficacy, toxicity, and pharmacokinetics of a single-dose MOX compared to two consecutive doses of oral ivermectin. At day 14 post-treatment, all four MOX-treated but only two IVM-treated pigs were mite-free. MOX persisted in plasma and skin for nine times longer than IVM, enabling long-lasting efficacy. Our data demonstrate that oral single-dose MOX was more effective than two consecutive IVM-doses, supporting MOX as a potential therapeutic approach for scabies.'
 'The type III interferon (IFNλ) receptor IL-28R is abundantly expressed in the respiratory tract and has been shown essential for host defense against some viral pathogens, however no data are available concerning its role in the innate immune response to bacterial pathogens. In this study, we show that IFNλ promotes inflammation during bacterial pneumonia by inhibiting miR-21 regulation of PDCD4. In vivo, 18 hours following infection with either pathogen, miR-21 was significantly reduced and PDCD4 increased in the lungs of wild type compared to IL-28R null mice. Infection of PDCD4 null mice with USA300 resulted in improved clearance, reduced pathology, and reduced inflammatory cytokine production. These data suggest that during bacterial pneumonia IFNλ promotes inflammation by inhibiting miR-21 regulation of PDCD4. The findings of this study provide new insights into the role of IFNλ in the innate immune response to bacterial pathogens and highlight the potential of targeting IFNλ signaling as a therapeutic strategy for the treatment of bacterial pneumonia.'
 'This study demonstrates advanced pattern discrimination and continuous learning in a network of spiking neurons with multiple plastic layers. The network utilized both reward modulated and non-reward modulated spike time dependent plasticity ( STDP ) and implemented multiple mechanisms for homeostatic regulation of synaptic efficacy, including heterosynaptic plasticity, gain control, output balancing, activity normalization of rewarded STDP, and hard limits on synaptic strength. The study found that addition of a hidden layer of neurons employing non-rewarded STDP created neurons that responded to the specific combinations of inputs and thus performed basic classification of the input patterns. When combined with a following layer of neurons implementing rewarded STDP, the network was able to learn, despite the absence of labeled training data, discrimination between rewarding patterns and the patterns designated as punishing. Synaptic noise allowed for trial-and-error learning that helped to identify the goal-oriented strategies which were effective in task solving. The study predicts a critical set of properties of the spiking neuronal network with STDP that was sufficient to solve a complex foraging task involving pattern classification and decision making.'
 'Genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) have been successful in identifying disease susceptibility loci for common and complex diseases. However, the question remains whether we can quantify individual disease risk based on genotype data, in order to facilitate personalized prevention and treatment for complex diseases. Previous studies have typically failed to achieve satisfactory performance, primarily due to the use of only a limited number of confirmed susceptibility loci. Here we propose that sophisticated machine-learning approaches with a large ensemble of markers may improve the performance of disease risk assessment. We applied a Support Vector Machine ( SVM ) algorithm on a GWAS dataset generated on the Affymetrix genotyping platform for type 1 diabetes ( T1D ) and optimized a risk assessment model with hundreds of markers. We subsequently tested this model on an independent Illumina-genotyped dataset with imputed genotypes ( 1 , 008 cases and 1 , 000 controls ) , as well as a separate Affymetrix-genotyped dataset ( 1 , 529 cases and 1 , 458 controls ) , resulting in area under ROC curve ( AUC ) of ∼0 . 84 in both datasets. In contrast, poor performance was achieved when limited to dozens of known susceptibility loci in the SVM model or logistic regression model. Our study suggests that improved disease risk assessment can be achieved by using algorithms that take into account interactions between a large ensemble of markers. We are optimistic that genotype-based disease risk assessment may be feasible for diseases where a notable proportion of the risk has already been captured by SNP arrays.
 'Leishmaniasis is a group of neglected tropical diseases caused by parasites of the genus Leishmania that are transmitted by female phlebotomine sandflies. The disease occurs in humans in two different clinical forms: cutaneous (CL) and visceral (VL). In Brazil, the number of CL cases climbed from 6,335 in 1984 to 30,030 in 1996. From 1990 to 2007, some 560,000 new cases of leishmaniasis were reported, primarily CL. However, after 2005, the total number of CL cases has dropped and remained stable, just above 20,000. Strategies for the control of leishmaniasis in Brazil have not changed over the past 60 years, which might explain why incidence did not decrease. At the same time, due to heterogeneity between the sandfly species, vector control introduces high costs. Effective control requires reliable maps of the spatial distribution of the disease, as well as the number of affected people, so that treatment and other control interventions can be implemented most cost-effectively. Bayesian geostatistical models have been applied in the mapping of malaria and neglected tropical diseases. In this study, we analyzed incidence data of CL and VL obtained by the information system for notifiable diseases during 2001 to 2010 from the Ministry of Health in Brazil. We employed Bayesian geostastical negative binomial models, fitted via INLA to predict the incidence of the diseases, using climatic, environmental, and socioeconomic covariates. We produced countrywide high resolution maps for leishmaniasis and estimated the number of infected people at the unit of the state. The generated incidence maps and estimates might be useful for decision-makers to prioritize intervention areas, and optimizing resources allocation to render control and elimination efforts most cost-effective.'
 'IKAROS is a critical regulator of hematopoietic cell fate and its dynamic expression pattern is required for proper hematopoiesis . In collaboration with the Nucleosome Remodeling and Deacetylase ( NuRD ) complex , it promotes gene repression and activation . Here , we demonstrate that NuRD and P-TEFb are assembled in a complex that can be recruited to specific genes by IKAROS . The expression level of IKAROS influences the recruitment of the NuRD-P-TEFb complex to gene regulatory regions and facilitates transcription elongation by transferring the Protein Phosphatase 1α ( PP1α ) , an IKAROS-binding protein and P-TEFb activator , to CDK9 . We show that an IKAROS mutant that is unable to bind PP1α cannot sustain gene expression and impedes normal differentiation of IkNULL hematopoietic progenitors . Finally , the knock-down of the NuRD subunit Mi2 reveals that the occupancy of the NuRD complex at transcribed regions of genes favors the relief of POL II promoter-proximal pausing and thereby , promotes transcription elongation .'
 'Mitochondria are organelles that produce energy for cells. They originated from bacteria that were taken up by cells and became symbiotic. The proteins that are needed to transport molecules across the mitochondrial membrane were likely made by the host cell and then imported into the mitochondria. The proteins that make up the translocase of the outer membrane (TOM) are important for this process. TOM is a complex of several proteins that form a pore in the outer membrane of the mitochondrion. The proteins that make up TOM are highly conserved across different species of mitochondria, but there are some differences. In this study, the authors looked at the TOM complex in hydrogenosomes, which are a type of mitochondrion found in certain types of parasites. They found that the TOM complex in hydrogenosomes is different from the one found in other types of mitochondria, but it still has some similarities. The authors also found that some of the proteins that make up TOM are missing in hydrogenosomes. They used a mathematical model to predict which proteins should be present in the TOM complex in hydrogenosomes, and their predictions were confirmed by experiments. The authors conclude that the TOM complex in hydrogenosomes is different from the one found in other types of mitochondria, but it still has some similarities. They also suggest that some of the proteins that make up TOM may have evolved independently in different species of mitochondria.'
 'Breast cancer is a common malignancy among women worldwide, including those living in East Asian countries. Genetic factors play an important role in the etiology of both sporadic and familial breast cancer. In the past two decades, more than 1,000 reports have been published addressing the association between variants in candidate genes and breast cancer risk. However, only a few genetic risk factors have been confirmed for this common malignancy. Recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified approximately 20 common genetic susceptibility loci for breast cancer. However, these newly-identified genetic factors, along with known high-penetrance breast cancer susceptibility genes explain less than 30% of the heritability for this cancer. Furthermore, most GWAS were conducted among women of European ancestry, and many of the variants discovered in European-ancestry populations showed only a weak or no association with breast cancer in other ethnic groups. For example, only 8 of 12 breast cancer risk SNPs identified in women of European ancestry were directly replicated in Chinese population. Therefore, GWAS conducted in non-European women are needed to fully uncover the genetic basis for breast cancer susceptibility. Herein, we report results from a large GWAS of breast cancer conducted in East Asian women.'
 'Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks are important tools for understanding the function of biological systems. However, the data used to construct these networks are often noisy and incomplete. In this paper, we present a novel approach to assess the confidence levels of interactions in PPI networks. We use this approach to predict new interactions and guide future biological experiments. Our approach is based on the geometric random graph model, which has been shown to be a good fit for PPI networks. We use the model to de-noise PPI data sets by detecting false positives and false negatives. We compare our approach with existing PPI network post-processing techniques and find that it performs well. Our approach is a useful tool for understanding the structure and function of PPI networks.'
 'Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a chronic necrotizing skin disease caused by infection with Mycobacterium ulcerans ( M . ulcerans ) . Mycolactone, a macrolide exotoxin produced by M . ulcerans, is essential for bacterial virulence and is highly cytotoxic for mammalian cells . Despite extensive research, the type of immune responses elicited against this pathogen and the effector functions conferring protection against BU are not yet fully understood. In an experimental Buruli ulcer mouse model, we found that interferon-γ ( IFNγ ) is a critical regulator of early host immune defense against M . ulcerans infections. IFNγ knockout mice displayed a faster progression of the infection compared to wild-type mice, reflected in faster and more extensive tissue necrosis and oedema formation, as well as in a significantly higher bacterial burden after five weeks of infection. This data demonstrates a prominent role of IFNγ in early defense against M . ulcerans infection and supports the view that concepts for vaccine development against tuberculosis may also be valid for BU. '
 'The mosquito Aedes aegypti is a major target of vector control programs in tropical countries due to its role in transmitting dengue, chikungunya, and yellow fever viruses. Traditional surveillance of Ae. aegypti relies on household larval surveys, which are costly and time-consuming. Traps are promising alternatives to larval surveys, as they allow mosquitoes to search for themselves and provide both qualitative and quantitative indices. In this study, we compared four types of traps (ovitraps, MosquiTRAP, Adultrap, and BioGent-Sentinel) with the traditional larval survey in five mid-sized cities in Brazil. We found that all traps performed better than the House Index in measuring seasonal variation in mosquito abundance. The choice between traps should consider differences in cost and ease-of-use, as well as the specific research question. Our results suggest that traps are a valuable tool for Ae. aegypti surveillance and should be considered as complements or alternatives to larval surveys.'
 'Mean-field approximations are a powerful tool for studying large neural networks, but they do not describe well the behavior of networks composed of a small number of neurons. In this study, we develop a novel systematic analysis of the dynamics of arbitrarily small networks composed of homogeneous populations of excitatory and inhibitory firing-rate neurons. We study the local bifurcations of their neural activity with an approach that is largely analytically tractable, and we numerically determine the global bifurcations. We find that for strong inhibition, these networks give rise to very complex dynamics caused by the formation of multiple branching solutions of the neural dynamics equations that emerge through spontaneous symmetry-breaking. This qualitative change of the neural dynamics is a finite-size effect of the network, which reveals qualitative and previously unexplored differences between mesoscopic cortical circuits and their mean-field approximation. The most important consequence of spontaneous symmetry-breaking is the ability of mesoscopic networks to regulate their degree of functional heterogeneity, which is thought to help reduce the detrimental effect of noise correlations on cortical information processing.'
 'The GPT-framework is a computational model that simulates the growth of tissues based on the principles of polarity and growth. The framework is designed to be flexible and can be used to model a wide range of tissues and organisms. The framework consists of three main components: tissue, polarity, and growth. The tissue is represented as a continuous material within which regionally expressed factors may interact and propagate. Polarity is established by signals that propagate through the tissue and is anchored in regions termed tissue polarity organizers. Rates of growth parallel or perpendicular to the local polarity may then be specified through a regulatory network. The resulting growth depends on how specified growth patterns interact within the constraints of mechanically connected tissue. The GPT-framework has been applied to the growth of a Snapdragon flower and has provided a working hypothesis for how growth is specified and how reorientation of growth can account for key observations. The theoretical foundations on which the model depends are also provided. The GPT-framework is a valuable tool for understanding the mechanisms of morphogenesis and can be used to make predictions about the growth of tissues and organisms.'
 'Ophthalmo-acromelic syndrome (OAS) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by eye malformations, most commonly bilateral anophthalmia, and post-axial oligosyndactyly. The gene responsible for OAS has been identified as SMOC1, which encodes a protein that functions as a BMP antagonist during embryonic development. Mutations in SMOC1 have been found in eight unrelated families with OAS, and a targeted gene-trap mutation of Smoc1 in mice results in a phenotype similar to the human disease. The role of SMOC1 in modulating BMP signaling during eye and limb development is discussed.'
 'The Drosophila genes spalt major ( salm ) and spalt-related ( salr ) encode Zn-finger transcription factors regulated by the Decapentaplegic ( Dpp ) signalling pathway in the wing imaginal disc . The function of these genes is required for cell survival and proliferation in the central region of the wing disc , and also for vein patterning in the lateral regions . The identification of direct Salm and Salr target genes , and the analysis of their functions , are critical steps towards understanding the genetic control of growth and patterning of the Drosophila wing imaginal disc by the Dpp pathway . To identify candidate Salm/Salr target genes , we have compared the expression profile of salm/salr knockdown wing discs with control discs in microarray experiments . We studied by in situ hybridization the expression pattern of the genes whose mRNA levels varied significantly , and uncovered a complex transcription landscape regulated by the Spalt proteins in the wing disc . Interestingly , candidate Salm/Salr targets include genes which expression is turned off and genes which expression is positively regulated by Salm/Salr . Furthermore , loss-of-function phenotypic analysis of these genes indicates , for a fraction of them , a requirement for wing growth and patterning . The identification and analysis of candidate Salm/Salr target genes opens a new avenue to reconstruct the genetic structure of the wing , linking the activity of the Dpp pathway to the development of this epithelial tissue .'
 'Sensory systems adapt their neural code to changes in the sensory environment on multiple time scales. Here, we report a new form of adaptation in a first-order auditory interneuron (AN2) of crickets. We characterize the response of the AN2 neuron to amplitude-modulated sound stimuli and find that adaptation shifts the stimulus–response curves toward higher stimulus intensities, with a time constant of 1.5 s for adaptation and recovery. The spike responses were thus reduced for low-intensity sounds. We then address the question whether adaptation leads to an improvement of the signal's representation and compare the experimental results with the predictions of two competing hypotheses: infomax and selective coding. We test how adaptation changes the input–response curve when presenting signals with two or three peaks in their amplitude distributions, for which selective coding and infomax predict conflicting changes. By means of Bayesian data analysis, we quantify the shifts of the measured response curves and also find a slight reduction of their slopes. These decreases in slopes are smaller and the absolute response thresholds are higher than those predicted by infomax. Most remarkably, and in contrast to the infomax principle, adaptation actually reduces the amount of encoded information when considering the whole range of input signals. Less information is transmitted about signals with lower intensity. The response curve changes are also not consistent with the selective coding hypothesis, because the amount of information conveyed about the loudest part of the signal does not increase as predicted but remains nearly constant. The results suggest that the AN2 neuron is not optimized for coding the inputs such that as much information as possible is preserved (infomax principle) but rather performs a preprocessing that leads to a high fidelity representation of only the loudest part of the stimuli (selective coding).'
 'This study examines the role of RpoS, a stress response sigma factor, in the tick-phase of the enzootic cycle of Borrelia burgdorferi, the causative agent of Lyme disease. The authors demonstrate that RpoS-dependent gene expression is required for the transmission of spirochetes by feeding nymphs. They show that RpoS-deficient organisms are confined to the midgut lumen where they transform into an unusual morphotype ( round bodies ) during the later stages of the blood meal. The authors suggest that spirochetes default to an RpoS-independent program for round body formation upon sensing that the energetics for transmission are unfavorable. They also show that round body formation is rapidly reversible and that it is in part attributable to reduced levels of Coenzyme A disulfide reductase, which provides NAD+ for glycolysis. The findings reveal a previously unsuspected role for RpoSBb in the physiological adaptations required for tick-to-mammal transmission as well as the existence of a proposed default survival mode ( round body formation ) triggered when spirochetes are unable to produce sufficient energy for dissemination within the nymph.'
2-Cys peroxiredoxins are important antioxidant enzymes found in Leishmania and related trypanosomatids. In this study, the functional relevance of one such enzyme, mitochondrial 2-Cys peroxiredoxin (mTXNPx), was investigated along the Leishmania infantum life cycle. mTXNPx null mutants (mtxnpx−) were found to be avirulent when inoculated into murine hosts, but this was not due to lack of peroxidase activity. Instead, the avirulent phenotype was attributed to the chaperone activity of mTXNPx, which was shown to suppress thermal aggregation of citrate synthase in vitro and to protect against thermal sensitivity in vivo. These findings suggest a novel function for mTXNPx as a molecular chaperone, independent of its peroxidase activity.
 'Plants produce a vast amount of biomass every year, which is metabolized by specialized microbes in diverse environments. Microbes play a crucial role in the global carbon cycle, human nutrition, and industrial processes based on cellulosic bioconversion. In this study, we developed a method to analyze how microbes catabolize plant polysaccharides that integrates CAZyme assays, RNA sequencing, and anaerobic growth screening. We applied this method to study how the bacterium Clostridium phytofermentans ferments plant biomass components, including glucans, mannans, xylans, galactans, pectins, and arabinans. These polysaccharides are fermented with variable efficiencies, and diauxies prioritize metabolism of preferred substrates. Strand-specific RNA sequencing revealed how this bacterium responds to polysaccharides by up-regulating specific groups of CAZymes, transporters, and enzymes to metabolize the constituent sugars. We purified 56 up-regulated CAZymes and tested their activities to show most polysaccharides are degraded by multiple enzymes, often from the same family, but with divergent rates, specificities, and cellular localizations. We then tested enzymes in combination to identify synergies between enzymes acting on the same substrate with different catalytic mechanisms. Our results advance our understanding of how microbes degrade and metabolize plant biomass, which is important for understanding carbon flow in the environment, promoting healthy human nutrition, and developing industrial processes based on cellulosic bioconversion.'
 'Glanders is a rare but serious disease caused by the bacterium Burkholderia mallei . It affects horses and can spread to humans, causing a fatal infection. Recent outbreaks of glanders have occurred in Asia, the Middle East, Africa, and South America. In 2010, an outbreak of glanders occurred in Bahrain, and we used high-resolution genotyping and comparative whole genome sequencing to investigate the outbreak. Our results showed that the samples from the outbreak in Bahrain separated into two distinct clusters, suggesting a complex epidemiological background and evidence for the involvement of multiple B . mallei strains. Additionally, the samples from Bahrain were more closely related to B . mallei isolated from horses in the United Arab Emirates in 2004 than other B . mallei, which is indicative of repeated importation to the region from similar geographic sources. The close relationship of the Dubai/UAE B . mallei populations to each other may be indicative of a similar geographic origin that has yet to be identified for the infecting strains. The recent emergence of glanders in combination with worldwide horse trading might pose a new risk for human infections.'
 'The root system plays a fundamental role for plant growth and survival. Root system architecture is highly plastic and determined by developmental and environmental factors that interact to optimize soil exploration. The root system can only respond to variation in such resources within its inherent developmental limits of growth rate and branching capacity, which are genetically determined. Optimization of root system architecture through breeding is therefore of particular interest in crops to increase root system plasticity with respect to biotic and abiotic stresses. Our knowledge about the molecular genetic control of root growth and branching has been largely obtained from analyses of the dicotyledon plant model system Arabidopsis thaliana ( Arabidopsis ) through mutagenesis approaches. Many of them encode proteins with regulatory functions, and among them components of plant hormone signaling pathways are particularly preeminent. For example, interference with the auxin-signaling pathway by mutation typically impairs primary root elongation or root branching, and in extreme cases even abolishes root formation. The same is true for loss-of-function mutations in genes that encode enzymes involved in tryptophan-dependent auxin biosynthesis. In particular, auxin biosynthesis from tryptophan via indole-3-pyruvic acid ( IPA ) has been shown to be essential for root formation. Two enzyme classes define this pathway: the TRYPTOPHAN AMINOTRANSFERASE OF ARABIDOPSIS 1 ( TAA1 ) and TAA1-RELATED ( TAR ) proteins, which catalyze the conversion of tryptophan to IPA; and the family of YUCCA cytochrome P450s, which catalyze the conversion of IPA to indole-3-acetic acid ( IAA ), the major active form of auxin. Whereas the YUCCA genes were originally identified through a gain-of-function approach that led to auxin over-accumulation, TAA1/TAR genes were identified through loss-of-function approaches. Here, we report the isolation and characterization of a Brachypodium distachyon ( Brachypodium ) mutant in the TAR2-LIKE ( BdTAR2L ) gene. Unlike vt2, this Bdtar2l mutant displays only mild shoot phenotypes. However, we observed dramatic root phenotypes, which surprisingly appear to result from upwardly disturbed auxin homeostasis. Our results reveal a delicate homeostasis of local auxin and ethylene activity to control cell elongation in Brachypodium roots and suggest alternative wiring of auxin-ethylene crosstalk as compared to Arabidopsis.'
 'The 3D organization of chromosomes is crucial for regulating gene expression and cell function . Chromosomes are long and densely packed—topologically constrained—polymers . The main challenges are therefore to develop adequate models and simulation methods to investigate properly the multi spatio-temporal scales of such macromolecules . Here , we proposed a generic strategy to develop efficient coarse-grained models for self-avoiding polymers on a lattice . Accounting accurately for the polymer entanglement length and the volumic density , we show that our simulation scheme not only captures the steady-state structural and dynamical properties of the system but also tracks the same dynamics at different coarse-graining . This strategy allows a strong power-law gain in numerical efficiency and offers a systematic way to define reliable coarse-grained null models for chromosomes and to go beyond the current limitations by studying long chromosomes during an extended time period with good statistics . We use our formalism to investigate in details the time evolution of the 3D organization of chromosome 3R ( 20 Mbp ) in drosophila during one cell cycle ( 20 hours ) . We show that a combination of our coarse-graining strategy with a one-parameter block copolymer model integrating epigenomic-driven interactions quantitatively reproduce experimental data at the chromosome-scale and predict that chromatin motion is very dynamic during the cell cycle .'
 'Toxoplasma is a parasite that infects humans and animals and causes toxoplasmosis, a disease that can lead to severe complications in immunocompromised individuals. Toxoplasma replicates in a parasitophorous vacuole (PV) that does not fuse with any host organelles. In this study, we examined the exploitation of host lipid droplets (LD) by Toxoplasma. We found that Toxoplasma replication is reduced in host cells that are depleted of LD or impaired in TAG lipolysis or fatty acid catabolism. Throughout infection, the PV are surrounded by host LD, and Toxoplasma is capable of accessing lipids stored in host LD and incorporating these lipids into its own membranes and LD. We also found that gavage of parasites with lipids unveiled, for the first time, the presence in Toxoplasma of endocytic-like structures containing lipidic material originating from the PV lumen. Our study highlights the reliance of Toxoplasma on host LD for its intracellular development and the parasite’s capability in scavenging neutral lipids from host LD.'
 'The BMP signaling pathway is a conserved mechanism for patterning the dorsal-ventral axis during embryonic development . In Drosophila , BMP signaling is transduced by the Mad transcription factor and opposed by the Brinker repressor . Using RNA-seq and ChIP-seq, we have identified multiple new BMP target genes and enhancers, including positive and negative regulators of EGF signaling. Manipulation of EGF signaling levels by loss- and gain-of-function studies revealed that EGF signaling negatively regulates embryonic BMP-responsive transcription. We incorporated our findings into a model for Mad-dependent activation and discussed its relevance to BMP signal interpretation in vertebrates. Our study provides new insights into the BMP gene network and its role in dorsal-ventral axis patterning.'
 'Mitochondria are important organelles in the human body that play a crucial role in energy production and other cellular processes. The mitochondrial proteome is composed of proteins that are encoded by nuclear genes and transported into the mitochondria. In this study, the authors used network analysis of gene expression data to investigate the systemic alterations of the mitochondrial protein functional network in response to dysfunctional mitochondrial states. They discovered that up-regulated and down-regulated proteins were organized into two predominant subnetworks that exhibited distinct biological processes. The down-regulated network modules are involved in typical mitochondrial functions, while up-regulated proteins are responsible for mtDNA repair and regulation of mt protein expression and transport. The authors also compared proteome and transcriptome data to reveal that cells attempt to compensate for mtDNA depletion by modulating the coordinated expression/transport of mt proteins. Their results demonstrate that the mt protein composition changes to remodel the functional organization of mitochondrial protein networks in response to dysfunctional cellular states. This study provides a framework for understanding how cells respond to mitochondrial dysfunctions and may be useful for developing new therapies for mitochondrial diseases.'
 'Thioredoxin (Trx) is a protein that plays a crucial role in redox regulation in many organisms. The dissociation mechanism of the Trx mixed disulfide complex has been studied using molecular dynamics simulations, pKa calculations, and biochemical complex formation experiments with Cys-mutants. The results show that the regioselectivity of the nucleophilic attack on the mixed disulfide complex is determined by the local softness of the sulfur atoms. The activated complex is formed by a conformational change at the Trx-ArsC interface, which brings the sulfur atoms of Cys29Trx and Cys89ArsC in contact. The local softness of Cys32Trx is increased, making it more reactive as a thiolate in the attack on Cys29Trx. The results provide new insights into the mechanism of Trx mixed disulfide complex dissociation and the role of the local softness in determining the regioselectivity of the nucleophilic attack.'
 'Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae and M . lepromatosis that primarily affects the skin and peripheral nervous system . We investigated the role of complement receptor 1 ( CR1 ) in differential susceptibility to leprosy by haplotyping nine CR1 polymorphisms in 213 leprosy patients and 297 controls, measuring mRNA levels and soluble CR1 levels in up to 80 samples. We found that the most common recombinant haplotype harboring rs3849266*T in intron 21 and rs3737002*T in exon 26 ( encoding p . 1408Met of the York Yka+ antigen ) presented twice higher susceptibility to leprosy. Paucibacillary patients with these variants presented lower sCR1 levels, thus reducing the anti-inflammatory response. Furthermore, the most ancient haplotype increased susceptibility to the multibacillary clinical form and presented the intronic rs12034383*G allele, which was associated with higher gene expression. There was an inverse correlation between the levels of sCR1 and mannose-binding lectin ( initiator molecule of the lectin pathway of complement , recognized by CR1 ) . Our results suggest a regulatory role for CR1 polymorphisms on mRNA and sCR1 levels, with haplotype-specific effects increasing susceptibility to leprosy, probably by enhancing parasite phagocytosis and inflammation .'
 'Metagenomic sequencing is a promising method for diagnosing human infections. However, the accuracy of this method depends on the availability and quality of genomes for comparison. Thousands of genomes are now available, but they contain contamination and low-complexity genomic sequences. To address this problem, we developed a bioinformatics system for eliminating contamination and low-complexity genomic sequences in draft genomes of eukaryotic pathogens. We applied this pipeline to identify and remove human, bacterial, archaeal, and viral sequences present in a comprehensive database of all sequenced eukaryotic pathogen genomes. Using this pipeline, we have produced a database of "clean" eukaryotic pathogen genomes for use with bioinformatics classification and analysis tools. We demonstrate that when attempting to find eukaryotic pathogens in metagenomic samples, the new database provides better sensitivity than one using the original genomes while offering a dramatic reduction in false positives.'
 'The Stockholm Atherosclerosis Gene Expression (STAGE) study aimed to identify functionally associated genes important for coronary artery disease (CAD) using whole-genome expression profiles from multiple organs. The study used a modified version of a two-way clustering approach to define tissue clusters and to cluster patients according to the mRNA signals within each tissue cluster. The primary endpoint was the extent of coronary atherosclerotic lesions as judged from the degree of coronary stenosis, measured by quantitative coronary angiography (QCA). The study identified a transendothelial migration of leukocytes (TEML) pathway-related module that was associated with coronary stenosis in three independent cohorts. The study also identified LIM domain binding 2 (LDB2) as a potential high-hierarchy regulator of the module. The findings of the study suggest that the TEML module is important for atherosclerosis development and that LDB2 merits further attention in CAD research.'
 'Human visual perception is constantly shaped by two contrasting forces: sensory adaptation and past decisions. In this study, we used multilevel modeling and cross-validation approaches to investigate the impact of previous stimuli and decisions on behavioral reports during adjustment and forced-choice tasks. Our results revealed that each perceptual report is permeated by opposite biases from a hierarchy of serially dependent processes: Low-level adaptation repels perception away from previous stimuli, whereas decisional traces attract perceptual reports toward the recent past. In this hierarchy of serial dependence, "continuity fields" arise from the inertia of decisional templates and not from low-level sensory processes. This finding is consistent with a Two-process model of serial dependence in which the persistence of readout weights in a decision unit compensates for sensory adaptation, leading to attractive biases in sequential perception. We propose a unified account of serial dependence in which functionally distinct mechanisms, operating at different stages, promote the differentiation and integration of visual information over time.'
 'Examples of animals evolving similar traits despite the absence of that trait in the last common ancestor, such as the wing and camera-type lens eye in vertebrates and invertebrates, are called cases of convergent evolution. Instances of convergent evolution of locomotory patterns that quantitatively agree with the mechanically optimal solution are very rare. Here, we show that, with respect to a very diverse group of aquatic animals, a mechanically optimal method of swimming with elongated fins has evolved independently at least eight times in both vertebrate and invertebrate swimmers across three different phyla. Specifically, if we take the length of an undulation along an animal’s fin during swimming and divide it by the mean amplitude of undulations along the fin length, the result is consistently around twenty. We call this value the optimal specific wavelength (OSW). We show that the OSW maximizes the force generated by the body, which also maximizes swimming speed. We hypothesize a mechanical basis for this optimality and suggest reasons for its repeated emergence through evolution. Our findings provide quantitative arguments for the hypothesis that the laws of physics limit the number of good solutions that are within reach of evolution, and that therefore we should expect life to take a similar course upon rewinding.'
 'Human papillomaviruses ( HPVs ) are DNA viruses associated with major human cancers . To develop new means to prevent HPV infections , such as vaccines and microbicides , it is important to understand the infectious life cycle of HPVs . In this study , the authors used chemical biology approaches to reveal that cell cycle progression through mitosis is critical for HPV infection . They used infectious HPV16 particles containing the intact viral genome , G1-synchronized human keratinocytes as hosts , and early viral gene expression as a readout for infection . They found that the recipient cell must enter M phase ( mitosis ) for successful onset of transcription of the HPV encapsidated genes . These findings provide one reason why HPVs initially establish infections in the basal compartment of stratified epithelia , which contains cells progressing through the cell cycle . The authors conclude that their results have potentially important implications for HPV control .'
 'Orofacial clefting is a common birth defect with both genetic and environmental causes. Although numerous studies have been conducted to investigate the genetic etiology of this heterogeneous condition, the molecular basis remains incompletely understood. In this study, we identified mutations in the HYAL2 gene as a cause of syndromic orofacial clefting. HYAL2 encodes hyaluronidase 2, which degrades extracellular hyaluronan, a critical component of the developing heart and palatal shelf matrix. Transfection assays demonstrated that the gene mutations destabilize the molecule, dramatically reducing HYAL2 protein levels. Consistent with the clinical presentation in affected individuals, investigations of Hyal2-/- mice revealed craniofacial abnormalities, including submucosal cleft palate. In addition, cor triatriatum sinister and hearing loss, identified in a proportion of Hyal2-/- mice, were also found as incompletely penetrant features in affected humans. Our findings identify a new genetic cause of orofacial clefting in humans and mice and define the first molecular cause of human cor triatriatum sinister, illustrating the fundamental importance of HYAL2 and hyaluronan turnover for normal human and mouse development.'
 'Hypoxia during brain development can cause long-lasting neurodevelopmental impairments . In this study, the authors found that hypoxia during brain development in zebrafish causes axon pathfinding errors in forebrain neurons. These errors are caused by activation of the hypoxia-inducible transcription factor (hif1) pathway and are mimicked by chemical inducers of the hif1 pathway or by expression of constitutively active hif1α. The authors also found that blocking transcriptional activation by hif1α helped prevent the guidance errors. They identified ephrinB2a as a target of hif1 pathway activation and showed that knock-down of ephrinB2a rescued the guidance errors. The authors also showed that the receptor ephA4a is expressed in a pattern complementary to the misrouting axons. By targeting a constitutively active form of ephrinB2a to specific neurons, the authors found that ephrinB2a mediates the pathfinding errors via a reverse-signaling mechanism. Finally, the authors found that magnesium sulfate, which is used to improve neurodevelopmental outcomes in preterm births, protects against pathfinding errors by preventing upregulation of ephrinB2a. These results demonstrate that evolutionarily conserved genetic pathways regulate connectivity changes in the CNS in response to hypoxia, and they support a potential neuroprotective role for magnesium.'
 'Filarial nematodes, which cause diseases such as elephantiasis and lymphatic filariasis, have a mutualistic relationship with the endosymbiont Wolbachia. Depletion of Wolbachia leads to profound defects in nematode development, fertility, and viability, and thus has great promise as a novel approach for treating filarial diseases. However, little is known about the basis for this mutualistic relationship. In this study, researchers used whole mount confocal microscopy to observe the consequences of Wolbachia depletion on host nematode cellular and nuclear structure. They found that an immediate response to Wolbachia depletion is extensive apoptosis in the adult germline and embryos, even in cells that had not been infected with Wolbachia prior to antibiotic treatment. Nuclear structure in most somatic tissues remains intact, although disruption of cytoskeleton arrangement occurs in the lateral chord cells, where the vast majority of the bacteria reside. The pattern of apoptosis correlates closely with the nematode tissues and processes initially perturbed following depletion of Wolbachia, and provides a cellular mechanism to account for the sustained reductions in microfilarial loads and interruption of transmission that occurs prior to macrofilaricidal activity following antibiotic therapy of filarial nematodes.'
 'Influenza A viruses (IAVs) are a major public health concern, and swine are proposed as a "mixing vessel" for generating reassortants of avian and mammalian IAVs that could be of risk to mammals, including humans. However, how a transmissible reassortant emerges in swine is not well understood. In this study, we identified 30 distinct genotypes of reassortants from a group of co-housed pigs (influenza-seronegative, avian H1N1 IAV-infected, and swine H3N2 IAV-infected pigs) and characterized the temporal and spatial distributions of the reassortants. We found that reassortants from lower respiratory tracts had the largest variations in growth kinetics in respiratory tract epithelial cells and that tissue tropism is an important factor selecting for a transmissible reassortant. Our findings suggest that during mixed infections of avian and swine IAVs, genetic reassortments are likely to occur in the lower respiratory tract, and tissue tropism is an important factor selecting for a transmissible reassortant.'
 'The DNA damage checkpoint is a conserved mechanism that allows cells to pause their cell cycle and repair DNA damage before proceeding with cell division. In yeast, the DNA damage checkpoint is regulated by a number of proteins, including Cdc5. We have found that Cdc5 is dose-dependent for adaptation to DNA damage and that its overexpression promotes faster adaptation. To determine how Cdc5 acts in the checkpoint pathway, we overexpressed CDC5 from the GAL1 promoter in damaged cells and examined key steps in checkpoint activation individually. We found that Cdc5 overproduction had little effect on the early steps leading to Rad53 activation, but significantly reduced Rad53 hyperphosphorylation, which is required for cell-cycle arrest. Our results suggest that Cdc5 acts to attenuate the DNA damage checkpoint through loss of Rad53 hyperphosphorylation to allow cells to adapt to DNA damage.'
 'Auditory streaming is a phenomenon where a complex sound is perceived as multiple separate streams. A common stimulus used to study streaming involves alternating tone sequences organized in repeating ABA- triplets. The study of auditory streaming has been focused on the early phase of streaming, reproducing some characteristic features of build up. However, the persistent, irregular alternations after the first perceptual switch have not been addressed in the available auditory modelling literature. In this study, we develop a neuromechanistic model of auditory streaming that focuses on accurately reproducing the dynamics of the alternations after the build up phase. Our formulation is directly motivated from physiological studies of auditory streaming and general models of perceptual bistability. We incorporate in our inputs the onset and transient dynamics of A1 responses with gaps between triplets. The perceptual interpretations are classified through criteria on the firing patterns. We use a dynamical systems framework with firing rate based neuronal competition mediated by mutual inhibition, adaptation and noise. We incorporate in our inputs the onset and transient dynamics of A1 responses with gaps between triplets. The perceptual interpretations are classified through criteria on the firing patterns. We use a dynamical systems framework with firing rate based neuronal competition mediated by mutual inhibition, adaptation and noise. We incorporate in our inputs the onset and transient dynamics of A1 responses with gaps between triplets. The perceptual interpretations are classified through criteria on the firing patterns. We use a dynamical systems framework with firing rate based neuronal competition mediated by mutual inhibition, adaptation and noise. We incorporate in our inputs the onset and transient dynamics of A1 responses with gaps between triplets. The perceptual interpretations are classified through criteria on the firing patterns. We use a dynamical systems framework with firing rate based neuronal competition mediated by mutual inhibition, adaptation and noise. We incorporate in our inputs the onset and transient dynamics of A1 responses with gaps between triplets. The perceptual interpretations are classified through criteria on the firing patterns. We use a dynamical systems framework with firing rate based neuronal competition mediated by mutual inhibition, adaptation and noise. We incorporate in our inputs the onset and transient dynamics of A1 responses with gaps between triplets. The perceptual interpretations are classified through criteria on the firing patterns. We use a dynamical systems framework with firing rate based neuronal competition mediated by mutual inhibition, adaptation and noise. We incorporate in our inputs the onset and transient dynamics of A1 responses with gaps between triplets. The perceptual interpretations are classified through criteria on the firing patterns. We use a dynamical systems framework with firing rate based neuronal competition mediated by mutual inhibition, adaptation and noise. We incorporate in our inputs the onset and transient dynamics of A1 responses with gaps between triplets. The perceptual interpretations are classified through criteria on the firing patterns. We use a dynamical systems framework with firing rate based neuronal competition mediated by mutual inhibition, adaptation and noise. We incorporate in our inputs the onset and transient dynamics of A1 responses with gaps between triplets. The perceptual interpretations are classified through criteria on the firing patterns. We use a dynamical systems framework with firing rate based neuronal competition mediated by mutual inhibition, adaptation and noise. We incorporate in our inputs the onset and transient dynamics of A1 responses with gaps between triplets. The perceptual interpretations are classified through criteria on the firing patterns. We use a dynamical systems framework with firing rate based neuronal competition mediated by mutual inhibition, adaptation and noise. We incorporate in our inputs the onset and transient dynamics of A1 responses with gaps between triplets. The perceptual interpretations are classified through criteria on the firing patterns. We use a dynamical systems framework with firing rate based neuronal competition mediated by mutual inhibition, adaptation and noise. We incorporate in our inputs the onset and transient dynamics of A1 responses with gaps between triplets. The perceptual interpretations are classified through criteria on the firing patterns. We use a dynamical systems framework with firing rate based neuronal competition mediated by mutual inhibition, adaptation and noise. We incorporate in our inputs the onset and transient dynamics of A1 responses with gaps between triplets. The perceptual interpretations are classified through criteria on the firing patterns. We use a dynamical systems framework with firing rate based neuronal competition mediated by mutual inhibition, adaptation and noise. We incorporate in our inputs the onset and transient dynamics of A1 responses with gaps between triplets. The perceptual interpretations are classified through criteria on the firing patterns. We use a dynamical systems framework with firing rate based neuronal competition mediated by mutual inhibition, adaptation and noise.
 'Recent interest in male-based sterile insect technique ( SIT ) and incompatible insect technique ( IIT ) to control Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus populations has revealed the need for an economical, rapid diagnostic tool for determining dispersion and mating success of sterilized males in the wild . Previous reports from other insects indicated rhodamine B , a thiol-reactive fluorescent dye , administered via sugar-feeding can be used to stain the body tissue and seminal fluid of insects . Here , we report on the adaptation of this technique for male Ae . aegypti to allow for rapid assessment of competitiveness ( mating success ) during field releases . Marking was achieved by feeding males on 0 . 1 , 0 . 2 , 0 . 4 or 0 . 8% rhodamine B ( w/v ) in 50% honey solutions during free flight . All concentrations produced >95% transfer to females and successful body marking after 4 days of feeding , with 0 . 4 and 0 . 8% solutions producing the longest-lasting body marking . Importantly , rhodamine B marking had no effect on male mating competitiveness and proof-of-principle field releases demonstrated successful transfer of marked seminal fluid to females under field conditions and recapture of marked males . These results reveal rhodamine B to be a potentially useful evaluation method for male-based SIT/IIT control strategies as well as a viable body marking technique for male-based mark-release-recapture experiments without the negative side-effects of traditional marking methods . As a standalone method for use in mating competitiveness assays , rhodamine B marking is less expensive than PCR ( e . g . paternity analysis ) and stable isotope semen labelling methods and less time-consuming than female fertility assays used to assess competitiveness of sterilised males .'
 'Hematophagous mosquitos and ticks avoid host hemostatic system through expression of enzyme inhibitors targeting proteolytic reactions of the coagulation and complement cascades . Boophilin is a 2-Kunitz multifunctional inhibitor targeting thrombin , elastase , and kallikrein . Boophilin was expressed in HEK293 cells and purified to homogeneity . Using amidolytic assays and surface plasmon resonance experiments , we have demonstrated that Boophilin behaves as a classical , non-competitive inhibitor of thrombin with respect to small chromogenic substrates by a mechanism dependent on both exosite-1 and catalytic site . Inhibition is accompanied by blockade of platelet aggregation , fibrin formation , and clot-bound thrombin in vitro . Boophilin also inhibits FXIa , preventing FIX activation . Furthermore , Boophilin inhibits kallikrein activity and the reciprocal activation , indicating that it targets the contact pathway . In addition , Boophilin inhibits cathepsin G- and plasmin-induced platelet aggregation and partially affects elastase-mediated cleavage of Tissue Factor Pathway Inhibitor ( TFPI ) . Finally , Boophilin inhibits carotid artery occlusion in vivo triggered by FeCl3 , and promotes bleeding according to the mice tail transection method . Through inhibition of several enzymes involved in proteolytic cascades and cell activation , Boophilin plays a major role in keeping the midgut microenvironment at low hemostatic and inflammatory tonus . This response allows ticks to successfully digest a blood meal which is critical for metabolism and egg development . Boophilin is the first tick midgut FXIa anticoagulant also found to inhibit thrombosis .'
 'In mammals, dosage compensation is achieved by doubling the expression of X-linked genes in both sexes, together with X inactivation in females. To determine whether X expression is adjusted depending on ploidy, we used expression arrays to compare X-linked and autosomal gene expression in human triploid cells. While the average X:autosome expression ratio was about 1 in normal diploid cells, this ratio was lower (0.81–0.84) in triploid cells with one active X and higher (1.32–1.4) in triploid cells with two active X’s. Thus, overall X-linked gene expression in triploid cells does not strictly respond to an autosomal factor, nor is it adjusted to achieve a perfect balance. Absolute autosomal expression levels per gene copy were similar in triploid versus diploid cells, indicating no apparent global effect on autosomal expression. In triploid cells with two active X’s our data support a basic doubling of X-linked gene expression. However, in triploid cells with a single active X, X-linked gene expression is adjusted upward presumably by an epigenetic mechanism that senses the ratio between the number of active X chromosomes and autosomal sets. Such a mechanism may act on a subset of genes whose expression dosage in relation to autosomal expression may be critical. Indeed, we found that there was a range of individual X-linked gene expression in relation to ploidy and that a small subset (∼7%) of genes had expression levels apparently proportional to the number of autosomal sets.'
 'The opportunistic human fungal pathogen Candida albicans undergoes morphological and transcriptional adaptation in the switch from commensalism to pathogenicity. Investigating morphogenetic control by post-translational phosphorylation has generated important regulatory insights into this process, especially focusing on coordinated control by the cyclin-dependent kinase Cdc28. Here we have identified the Fkh2 transcription factor as a regulatory target of both Cdc28 and the cell wall biosynthesis kinase Cbk1, in a role distinct from its conserved function in cell cycle progression. In stationary phase yeast cells, 2D gel electrophoresis shows that there is a diverse pool of Fkh2 phospho-isoforms. For a short window on hyphal induction, far before START in the cell cycle, the phosphorylation profile is transformed before reverting to the yeast profile. This transformation does not occur when stationary phase cells are reinoculated into fresh medium supporting yeast growth. Mass spectrometry and mutational analyses identified residues phosphorylated by Cdc28 and Cbk1. Substitution of these residues with non-phosphorylatable alanine altered the yeast phosphorylation profile and abrogated the characteristic transformation to the hyphal profile. Transcript profiling of the phosphorylation site mutant revealed that the hyphal phosphorylation profile is required for the expression of genes involved in pathogenesis, host interaction and biofilm formation. Furthermore, we identified that Fkh2 interacts with the chromatin modifier Pob3 in a phosphorylation-dependent manner, thereby providing a possible mechanism by which the phosphorylation of Fkh2 regulates its specificity. Thus, we have discovered a novel cell cycle-independent phospho-regulatory event that subverts a key component of the cell cycle machinery to a role in the switch from commensalism to pathogenicity.'
 'Pseudorabies virus ( PRV ) is a neuroanatomical tracing tool and related to human alpha herpesviruses. To study PRV egress, we developed a live-cell fluorescence microscopy method that selectively images virus particles near the plasma membrane and uses a pH-sensitive probe to visualize exocytosis. We found that PRV particles are tightly confined at the plasma membrane before and after exocytosis and undergo a sharp movement during exocytosis. We also imaged Rab GTPases and found that Rab6a, Rab8a, and Rab11a are spatially and dynamically associated with viral exocytosis. Finally, we propose an integrated model that links together the intracellular transport pathways and exocytosis mechanisms that mediate alpha herpesvirus egress.'
 'Influenza viruses are a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. The viruses are constantly evolving and emerging with new antigenic properties. To estimate the mortality burden of a new influenza virus, a rapid and accurate method is needed. In this study, the authors propose a novel host-virus interaction model and establish a positive correlation between the excess mortalities caused by viral strains of distinct antigenicity and their antigenic distances to their previous strains for each (sub)type of seasonal influenza viruses. Based on this relationship, the authors develop a method to rapidly assess the mortality burden of influenza A (H1N1) virus by accurately predicting the antigenic distance between A (H1N1) strains. This method should help formulate a cost-effective response for influenza control and prevention.'
 'Leishmania parasites are flagellated protozoa that cause a variety of diseases in humans and animals. They alternate between two forms: promastigotes, which live in the midgut of sandflies, and amastigotes, which live inside the cells of mammalian hosts. In this study, researchers infected mouse macrophages with Leishmania amazonensis amastigotes and then infected those same cells with Leishmania major promastigotes or amastigotes. They found that promastigotes of L. major could fuse with pre-existing L. amazonensis amastigote-containing vacuoles, but amastigotes of L. major could not. The researchers also found that L. major promastigotes could survive and multiply inside L. amazonensis-containing vacuoles, but they did not differentiate into amastigotes. In contrast, L. major amastigotes could not survive or multiply inside L. amazonensis-containing vacuoles, but they could differentiate into amastigotes. These findings suggest that Leishmania parasites of different species may have different mechanisms for interacting with host cells and with each other within host cells.'
 'This study investigates the importance of insulin signaling in the growth, development, sexual maturation, and egg production of adult schistosomes. We have previously cloned and partially characterized the insulin receptors (SjIRs) of Schistosoma japonicum, which we now show can bind human insulin using Biolayer Interferometry. We have also used RNA interference to knock down the expression of the SjIRs in adult S. japonicum in vitro and found that this led to a significant decrease in glucose uptake and reduced transcription of other important downstream genes within the insulin pathway associated with glucose metabolism and schistosome fecundity. In vaccine/challenge experiments, we found that rSjLD1 and rSjLD2 depressed female growth, intestinal granuloma density, and faecal egg production in S. japonicum in mice presented with a low dose challenge infection. These data re-emphasize the potential of the SjIRs as veterinary transmission blocking vaccine candidates against zoonotic schistosomiasis japonica in China and the Philippines.'
 'Nef is a protein encoded by HIV-1 that is required for sustained virus replication and accelerated progression to AIDS. In this study, the authors investigated the mechanism by which Nef increases the infectivity of cell-free virions. They found that Nef conferred as much as 50-fold resistance to two potent neutralizing monoclonal antibodies (nAbs) that target the membrane proximal external region (MPER) of TMgp41. In contrast, Nef had no effect on HIV-1 neutralization by MPER-specific nAb Z13e1, by the peptide inhibitor T20, nor by a panel of nAbs and other reagents targeting gp120. The authors further found that this activity requires Nef myristoylation but that it is genetically separable from other Nef functions such as the ability to enhance virus infectivity and to downregulate CD4. Glycosylated-Gag from MoMLV substituted for Nef in conferring resistance to 2F5 and 4E10, indicating that this activity is conserved in a retrovirus that does not encode Nef. The authors propose that Nef alters MPER recognition in the context of the virion membrane, and that this activity has important implications for anti-HIV-1 immunity and AIDS pathogenesis.'
 'The RNA polymerase II (Pol II) is a eukaryotic enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of messenger RNA (mRNA) using a DNA template. Despite numerous biochemical and biophysical studies, it remains unclear whether the “secondary channel” is the only route for NTP to reach the active site of the enzyme or if the “main channel” could be an alternative. In this study, we built a structural model of Pol II with a complete transcription bubble based on multiple sources of existing structural data and used Molecular Dynamics (MD) simulations together with structural analysis to shed light on NTP entry pathways. Interestingly, we found that although both channels have enough space to allow NTP loading, the percentage of MD conformations containing enough space for NTP loading through the secondary channel is twice higher than that of the main channel. Further energetic study based on MD simulations with NTP loaded in the channels has revealed that the diffusion of the NTP through the main channel is greatly disfavored by electrostatic repulsion between the NTP and the highly negatively charged backbones of nucleotides in the non-template DNA strand. Taken together, our results suggest that the secondary channel is the major route for NTP entry during Pol II transcription.'
 'Visual object recognition and sensitivity to image features are influenced by contextual inputs. We studied the influence of contextual bars on the bias to perceive or infer the presence of a target bar, rather than on the sensitivity to image features. Human observers judged from a briefly presented stimulus whether a target bar of a known orientation and shape is present at the center of a display, given a weak or missing input contrast at the target location with or without a context of other bars. Observers are more likely to perceive a target when the context has a weaker rather than stronger contrast. When the context can perceptually group well with the would-be target, weak contrast contextual bars bias the observers to perceive a target relative to the condition without contexts, as if to fill in the target. Meanwhile, high-contrast contextual bars, regardless of whether they group well with the target, bias the observers to perceive no target. A Bayesian model of visual inference is shown to account for the data well, illustrating that the context influences the perception in two ways: (1) biasing observers' prior belief that a target should be present according to visual grouping principles, and (2) biasing observers' internal model of the likely input contrasts caused by a target bar. According to this model, our data suggest that the context does not influence the perceived target contrast despite its influence on the bias to perceive the target's presence, thereby suggesting that cortical areas beyond the primary visual cortex are responsible for the visual inferences.'
 'Lectin-like bacteriotoxic proteins ( LlpABW ) are produced by some plant-associated bacteria and are able to selectively kill closely related species, including several phytopathogens . The crystal structure of LlpABW reveals an architecture of two monocot mannose-binding lectin ( MMBL ) domains and a C-terminal β-hairpin extension. The C-terminal MMBL domain adopts a fold very similar to MMBL domains from plant lectins and contains a binding site for mannose and oligomannosides. Mutational analysis indicates that an intact sugar-binding pocket in this domain is crucial for bactericidal activity. The N-terminal MMBL domain adopts the same fold but is structurally more divergent and lacks a functional mannose-binding site. Differential activity of engineered N/C-domain chimers derived from two LlpA homologues with different killing spectra disclosed that the N-domain determines target specificity. Apparently this bacteriocin is assembled from two structurally similar domains that evolved separately towards dedicated functions in target recognition and bacteriotoxicity.'
 'Bacteria have a wide range of genomic GC-content, from less than 20% to more than 70%. This variation is generally attributed to differences in the mutation pattern between bacteria. In this study, we examined patterns of synonymous polymorphism in 149 bacterial species and found a large excess of synonymous GC→AT mutations over AT→GC mutations segregating in all but the most AT-rich bacteria. We show that this excess of GC→AT SNPs is inconsistent with mutation bias, since it would imply that most GC-rich bacteria are declining in GC-content. We also show that the patterns are probably not due to translational selection or biased gene conversion, because optimal codons tend to be AT-rich. We therefore conclude that there is selection to increase synonymous GC-content in many species. Since synonymous GC-content is highly correlated to genomic GC-content, we further conclude that there is selection on genomic base composition in many bacteria.'
 'Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by the expansion of a CAG repeat in the huntingtin gene. The expansion leads to the production of a mutant huntingtin protein that is toxic to cells. The expansion is unstable and can occur in somatic tissues, leading to tissue-specific degeneration. The mechanisms underlying this tissue-specific instability are not well understood. In this study, the authors used transgenic mice to investigate the relationship between chromatin structure, transcription, and tissue-specific CAG instability. They found that transcription elongation, but not initiation, is increased at the HD locus in the striatum, a tissue that is selectively affected in HD. The authors suggest that transcription elongation may contribute to tissue-specific CAG instability in HD. This study provides important insights into the mechanisms underlying tissue-specific instability in HD and may lead to the development of new therapies for the disease.'
 'Neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) are a group of diseases that affect millions of people worldwide, particularly in low- and middle-income countries . Despite significant efforts to combat these diseases, there is still a need for more research to develop new treatments and diagnostics . In this study, we used bibliometric data to identify and map research networks for NTDs in Germany and its partners abroad. We found that while Germany has a strong research output in the field of NTDs, it is still lagging behind other industrialized countries. We also identified key research institutions and individuals in the field of NTDs in Germany and abroad. Our findings can help inform policy decisions and resource allocation for NTD research and control efforts.'
 'Chagas disease is a major vector-borne disease in Latin America that is caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi, which is transmitted to humans primarily by triatomine vectors. Non-domiciliated vectors remain responsible for a significant transmission risk, and their control is now a key challenge for disease control. A mathematical model was developed to predict the temporal variations in abundance of non-domiciliated vectors inside houses. The model accurately fitted and predicted field data in the absence and presence of insecticide spraying. Pyrethroid spraying was found effective when 50 mg/m2 were applied yearly within a two-month period matching the immigration season. Insect screens consistently reduced bug abundance proportionally to the reduction of the vector immigration rate. Control of non-domiciliated vectors can hardly be achieved by insecticide spraying, because it would require yearly application and an accurate understanding of the temporal pattern of immigration. Insect screens appear to offer an effective and sustainable alternative, which may be part of multi-disease interventions for the integrated control of neglected vector-borne diseases.'
 'People change their choices based on what others do, but how do they do this? In this study, we examined how people learn from others' choices and how this affects their own choices. We found that people are uncertain about their own preferences and that they update their preferences based on the preferences of others. This has important implications for understanding how people make decisions and how they can be influenced by others. Our findings also have implications for understanding how people learn and how they can be taught to make better decisions.'
 'Rice is an important crop worldwide, but its root growth is different from that of Arabidopsis. In Arabidopsis, ethylene and auxin act synergistically to regulate root growth and development. However, their interaction in rice is still unclear. Here, we report that the transcriptional activation of OsEIL1 on the expression of YUC8/REIN7 and indole-3-pyruvic acid ( IPA )-dependent auxin biosynthesis is required for ethylene-inhibited root elongation. Using an inhibitor of YUC activity, we showed that ethylene-inhibited primary root elongation is dependent on YUC-based auxin biosynthesis. By screening phenotypes of seedling primary root from mutagenesis libraries following ethylene treatment, we identified a rice ethylene-insensitive mutant, rein7-1, in which YUC8/REIN7 is truncated at its C-terminus. Mutation in YUC8/REIN7 reduced auxin biosynthesis in rice, while YUC8/REIN7 overexpression enhanced ethylene sensitivity in the roots. Moreover, YUC8/REIN7 catalyzed the conversion of IPA to IAA, truncated version at C-terminal end of the YUC8/REIN7 resulted in significant reduction of enzymatic activity, indicating that YUC8/REIN7 is required for IPA-dependent auxin biosynthesis and ethylene-inhibited root elongation in rice early seedlings. Further investigations indicated that ethylene induced YUC8/REIN7 expression and promoted auxin accumulation in roots. Addition of low concentrations of IAA rescued the ethylene response in the rein7-1, strongly demonstrating that ethylene-inhibited root elongation depends on IPA-dependent auxin biosynthesis. Genetic studies revealed that YUC8/REIN7-mediated auxin biosynthesis functioned downstream of OsEIL1, which directly activated the expression of YUC8/REIN7. Thus, our findings reveal a model of interaction between ethylene and auxin in rice seedling primary root elongation, enhancing our understanding of ethylene signaling in rice.'
 'The long noncoding RNA MALAT1 is upregulated in cancer tissues and its elevated expression is associated with hyper-proliferation, but the underlying mechanism is poorly understood. The authors demonstrate that MALAT1 levels are regulated during normal cell cycle progression. Genome-wide transcriptome analyses in normal human diploid fibroblasts reveal that MALAT1 modulates the expression of cell cycle genes and is required for G1/S and mitotic progression. Depletion of MALAT1 leads to activation of p53 and its target genes. The cell cycle defects observed in MALAT1-depleted cells are sensitive to p53 levels, indicating that p53 is a major downstream mediator of MALAT1 activity. Furthermore, MALAT1-depleted cells display reduced expression of B-MYB ( Mybl2 ), an oncogenic transcription factor involved in G2/M progression, due to altered binding of splicing factors on B-MYB pre-mRNA and aberrant alternative splicing. In human cells, MALAT1 promotes cellular proliferation by modulating the expression and/or pre-mRNA processing of cell cycle–regulated transcription factors. These findings provide mechanistic insights on the role of MALAT1 in regulating cellular proliferation.'
 'HIV-1 is primarily transmitted through vaginal intercourse, where the virus is deposited on the cervico-vaginal mucosa. Semen, which contains many biological factors, may affect HIV-1 transmission. One such factor is interleukin (IL)-7, which is found in high concentrations in semen of healthy individuals and is further increased in semen of HIV-1-infected men. In this study, we investigated the potential role of IL-7 in HIV-1 vaginal transmission using an ex vivo system of human cervico-vaginal tissue. We found that IL-7 significantly enhanced virus replication in ex vivo infected cervico-vaginal tissue. Similarly, we observed an enhancement of HIV-1 replication in lymphoid tissue explants. Analysis of T cells isolated from infected tissues showed that IL-7 reduced CD4+ T cell depletion and prevented apoptosis, as shown by the decrease in the number of cells expressing the apoptotic marker APO2 and the increase in the expression of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. IL-7 also increased the fraction of cycling CD4+ T cells, as evidenced by staining for the nuclear factor Ki-67. These findings suggest that high levels of seminal IL-7 in vivo may be relevant to the survival of the founder pool of HIV-1-infected cells in the cervico-vaginal mucosa at the initial stage of infection, promoting local expansion and dissemination of HIV infection.'
 'The evolutionary origins of genetic robustness are still under debate. We conducted a large-scale computational study to chart the level of robustness of metabolic networks of hundreds of bacterial species across many simulated growth environments. We provide evidence that variations among species in their level of robustness reflect ecological adaptations. We decouple metabolic robustness into two components and quantify the extents of each: the first, environmental-dependent, is responsible for at least 20% of the non-essential reactions and its extent is associated with the species' lifestyle; the second, environmental-independent, is associated with the intrinsic metabolic capacities of a species. Finally, we identify reactions that are uniquely susceptible to perturbations in human pathogens, potentially serving as novel drug-targets.'
 'Histone chaperones are proteins that help assemble and disassemble nucleosomes, the basic units of chromatin. The DNA replication-coupled nucleosome assembly pathway is important for maintaining transcriptional gene silencing and genome stability. In this study, we found that the Elongator histone acetyltransferase interacts with the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), a protein involved in DNA replication and repair. Cells lacking Elp3, the catalytic subunit of the Elongator complex, are defective in transcriptional silencing and are sensitive to DNA damaging agents. We also found that Elp3 is one of the HATs responsible for acetylating H4K8 in vivo. These results reveal a novel role of the Elongator in maintaining genome stability.'
 'Vaccination is an effective method to protect against infectious diseases. Determining the optimal amount of inoculum dose is an important component of rational vaccine design. A combination of mathematical models with experimental data can help determine the impact of the inoculum dose on important outcomes such as immune protection and morbidity. We illustrate the concept of using data and models to inform inoculum dose determination for vaccines by fitting a mathematical model to data from influenza A virus (IAV) infection of mice and human parainfluenza virus (HPIV) infection of cotton rats at different inoculum doses. We use the model to map inoculum dose to the level of immune protection and morbidity and to explore how such a framework might be used to determine an optimal inoculum dose. Our findings illustrate that the impact of inoculum dose on immune protection and morbidity can depend on the specific pathogen and that both protection and morbidity do not necessarily increase monotonically with increasing inoculum dose. Once vaccine design goals are specified with required levels of protection and acceptable levels of morbidity, our proposed framework can help in the rational design of vaccines and determination of the optimal amount of inoculum.'
 'DNA methylation is a key epigenetic modification that plays an important role in the regulation of gene expression and genome stability. Alterations in DNA methylation patterns have been implicated in the development of human cancers. The Dnmt3a enzyme is required for the establishment of normal methylation patterns and mutations in Dnmt3a have been described in leukemias. We have used whole-genome bisulfite sequencing to comprehensively characterize the methylomes from Dnmt3a wildtype and Dnmt3a-deficient mouse lung tumors. Our results show that profound global methylation changes can occur in K-ras–induced lung cancer. Dnmt3a wild-type tumors were characterized by large hypomethylated domains that correspond to nuclear lamina-associated domains. In contrast, Dnmt3a-deficient tumors showed a uniformly hypomethylated genome. Further data analysis revealed that Dnmt3a is required for efficient maintenance methylation of active chromosome domains and that Dnmt3a-deficient tumors show moderate levels of gene deregulation in these domains. In summary, our results uncover conserved features of cancer methylomes and define the role of Dnmt3a in maintaining DNA methylation patterns in cancer.'
'The PR interval on the electrocardiogram reflects the time it takes for an electrical signal to travel from the atria to the ventricles of the heart. The PR interval is heritable and provides important information about arrhythmia risk. Genome-wide association (GWA) studies have identified common genetic determinants of the PR interval in individuals of European and Asian ancestry, but there is a general paucity of GWA studies in individuals of African ancestry. We performed GWA studies in African American individuals from four cohorts to identify genetic variants associated with PR interval duration. We observed a strong signal within the gene encoding the cardiac sodium channel (SCN5A) with genome-wide significant association in two of the four cohorts and in the meta-analysis. The signal explained 2% of PR interval variability in African Americans. This SNP was also associated with PR interval in individuals of European ancestry, but with a smaller effect size and variability explained. Further meta-analysis of the four cohorts identified genome-wide significant associations with SNPs in SCN10A, MEIS1, and TBX5 that were highly correlated with SNPs identified in European and Asian GWA studies. Our findings demonstrate the relevance of common variants to African Americans at four loci previously associated with PR interval in European and Asian samples and identify an association signal at one of these loci that is more strongly associated with PR interval in African Americans than in Europeans. These findings may provide novel insights into molecular electrophysiology and lead to novel drug targets for arrhythmia treatment. '
 'Inhibitory interneurons play critical roles in shaping the firing patterns of principal neurons in many brain systems. Despite differences in the anatomy or functions of neuronal circuits containing inhibition, two basic motifs repeatedly emerge: feed-forward and feedback. In the locust, it was proposed that a subset of lateral horn interneurons (LHNs) provide feed-forward inhibition onto Kenyon cells (KCs) to maintain their sparse firing—a property critical for olfactory learning and memory. However, recently it was established that a single inhibitory cell, the giant GABAergic neuron (GGN), is the main and perhaps sole source of inhibition in the mushroom body, and that inhibition from this cell is mediated by a feedback (FB) loop including KCs and the GGN. To clarify basic differences in the effects of feedback vs. feed-forward inhibition in circuit dynamics, we here use a model of the locust olfactory system. We found both inhibitory motifs were able to maintain sparse KCs responses and provide optimal odor discrimination. However, we further found that only FB inhibition could create a phase response consistent with data recorded in vivo. These findings describe general rules for feed-forward versus feedback inhibition and suggest GGN is potentially capable of providing the primary source of inhibition to the KCs. A better understanding of how inhibitory motifs impact post-synaptic neuronal activity could be used to reveal unknown inhibitory structures within biological networks.'
 The BRCA Challenge is a global initiative to develop a comprehensive, standardized, and accessible resource for variant classification of BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes. The BRCA Exchange is the central component of this initiative, providing a web portal and mobile application for variant annotation and sharing of data from multiple sources. The BRCA Exchange is built on a pipeline that merges and validates variant data from multiple sources, including ClinVar , LOVD , BIC , and ExAC . The BRCA Exchange is designed to be a stable, scalable, and secure resource for variant classification and data sharing, with a focus on the needs of clinicians and patients. The BRCA Challenge is a model for engaging broad communities and resources for sharing data across genes and eventually regulatory regions of major clinical importance . The BRCA Challenge is a demonstration project to bring together clinicians , researchers , data scientists , patients , and advocates to work toward a new model of data sharing . Its purpose is to create a comprehensive data-sharing and curation system that could be easily applied to the more than 114 other cancer predisposition genes identified to date [46] , and ultimately , to all genes underlying recognized disease phenotypes , currently estimated to be around 3 , 000 .
 'The RAS/MAPK pathway is a key signaling pathway that regulates cell proliferation and differentiation. In this study, the authors used a genome-wide RNAi screen in Drosophila S2 cells to identify factors that regulate RAS-mediated MAPK activation. They found 101 validated hits, including most of the previously known factors associated with this pathway. Epistasis experiments were then carried out on individual candidates to determine their position relative to core pathway components. While most hits unexpectedly worked downstream of MEK and specifically influenced MAPK expression, the authors found that these hits mainly consist of constitutive splicing factors and thereby suggest that splicing plays a specific role in establishing MAPK levels. They further characterized two representative members of this group and surprisingly found that they act by regulating mapk alternative splicing. This study provides an unprecedented assessment of the factors modulating RAS/MAPK signaling in Drosophila and suggests that core splicing components can also specifically impact alternative splicing.'
 'This study investigates the informational limitations of genetic sequence data in infectious disease outbreak reconstruction. The authors introduce the concept of "transmission divergence," which is defined as the number of mutations separating whole genome sequences sampled from transmission pairs. They simulate outbreak scenarios alongside sequence evolution using two models described in the literature to describe transmission divergence of ten major outbreak-causing pathogens. The authors find that while mean values vary significantly between the pathogens considered, their transmission divergence is generally very low, with many outbreaks characterized by large numbers of genetically identical transmission pairs. They describe the impact of transmission divergence on the ability to reconstruct outbreaks using two outbreak reconstruction tools and demonstrate that genetic sequence data of rapidly evolving pathogens such as RNA viruses can provide valuable information on individual transmission events. Conversely, sequence data of pathogens with lower mean transmission divergence, including Streptococcus pneumoniae, Shigella sonnei, and Clostridium difficile, provide little to no information about individual transmission events. The authors highlight the informational limitations of genetic sequence data in certain outbreak scenarios and demonstrate the need to expand the toolkit of outbreak reconstruction tools to integrate other types of epidemiological data.'
 'Dengue virus (DENV) is a major public health concern worldwide, with four different types (DENV-1 to -4) that can cause a range of outcomes from asymptomatic to severe illness. The majority of DENV infections are subclinical, but pre-existing immunity can influence the outcome of subsequent infections. In this study, we analyzed the immune responses of school-aged children in Thailand who experienced a subclinical or symptomatic DENV infection. We found significant differences in cytokine production by pre-infection PBMC stimulated with live DENV, based on both the type of DENV used for stimulation and the occurrence of clinical illness. Higher levels of IL-15, MCP-1, and IL-6 were associated with symptomatic infection, while lower levels of IL-12, IL-2R, MIP-1α, RANTES, GM-CSF, and TNFα were associated with symptomatic infection. These findings suggest that pre-existing immune profiles can predict the clinical outcome of subsequent DENV infection and may be useful for evaluating immune responses to dengue vaccines.'
