Cell-fate reprograming is at the heart of development , yet very little is known about the molecular mechanisms promoting or inhibiting reprograming in intact organisms . In the C . elegans germline , reprograming germ cells into somatic cells requires chromatin perturbation . Here , we describe that such reprograming is facilitated by GLP-1/Notch signaling pathway . This is surprising , since this pathway is best known for maintaining undifferentiated germline stem cells/progenitors . Through a combination of genetics , tissue-specific transcriptome analysis , and functional studies of candidate genes , we uncovered a possible explanation for this unexpected role of GLP-1/Notch . We propose that GLP-1/Notch promotes reprograming by activating specific genes , silenced by the Polycomb repressive complex 2 ( PRC2 ) , and identify the conserved histone demethylase UTX-1 as a crucial GLP-1/Notch target facilitating reprograming . These findings have wide implications , ranging from develo
Klebsiella pneumoniae is a respiratory , blood , liver , and bladder pathogen of significant clinical concern . We show that the adaptor protein , SKAP2 , is required for protection against K . pneumoniae ( ATCC 43816 ) pulmonary infections . Skap2-/- mice had 100-fold higher bacterial burden when compared to wild-type and burden was controlled by SKAP2 expression in innate immune cells . Skap2-/- neutrophils and monocytes were present in infected lungs , and the neutrophils degranulated normally in response to K . pneumoniae infection in mice; however , K . pneumoniae-stimulated reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production in vitro was abolished . K . pneumoniae-induced neutrophil ROS response required the activity of SFKs , Syk , Btk , PLCγ2 , and PKC . The loss of SKAP2 significantly hindered the K . pneumoniae-induced phosphorylation of SFKs , Syk , and Pyk2 implicating SKAP2 as proximal to their activation in pathogen-signaling pathways . In conclusion , SKAP2-dependent signaling in
Plasmodium vivax relapse infections occur following activation of latent liver-stages parasites ( hypnozoites ) causing new blood-stage infections weeks to months after the initial infection . We develop a within-host mathematical model of liver-stage hypnozoites , and validate it against data from tropical strains of P . vivax . The within-host model is embedded in a P . vivax transmission model to demonstrate the build-up of the hypnozoite reservoir following new infections and its depletion through hypnozoite activation and death . The hypnozoite reservoir is predicted to be over-dispersed with many individuals having few or no hypnozoites , and some having intensely infected livers . Individuals with more hypnozoites are predicted to experience more relapses and contribute more to onwards P . vivax transmission . Incorporating hypnozoite killing drugs such as primaquine into first-line treatment regimens is predicted to cause substantial reductions in P . vivax transmission as indi
When 2 Mha of Amazonian forests are disturbed by selective logging each year , more than 90 Tg of carbon ( C ) is emitted to the atmosphere . Emissions are then counterbalanced by forest regrowth . With an original modelling approach , calibrated on a network of 133 permanent forest plots ( 175 ha total ) across Amazonia , we link regional differences in climate , soil and initial biomass with survivors’ and recruits’ C fluxes to provide Amazon-wide predictions of post-logging C recovery . We show that net aboveground C recovery over 10 years is higher in the Guiana Shield and in the west ( 21 ±3 Mg C ha-1 ) than in the south ( 12 ±3 Mg C ha-1 ) where environmental stress is high ( low rainfall , high seasonality ) . We highlight the key role of survivors in the forest regrowth and elaborate a comprehensive map of post-disturbance C recovery potential in Amazonia . 
Neurosphere formation is commonly used as a surrogate for neural stem cell ( NSC ) function but the relationship between neurosphere-initiating cells ( NICs ) and NSCs remains unclear . We prospectively identified , and isolated by flow cytometry , adult mouse lateral ventricle subventricular zone ( SVZ ) NICs as GlastmidEGFRhighPlexinB2highCD24−/lowO4/PSA-NCAM−/lowTer119/CD45− ( GEPCOT ) cells . They were highly mitotic and short-lived in vivo based on fate-mapping with Ascl1CreERT2 and Dlx1CreERT2 . In contrast , pre-GEPCOT cells were quiescent , expressed higher Glast , and lower EGFR and PlexinB2 . Pre-GEPCOT cells could not form neurospheres but expressed the stem cell markers Slc1a3-CreERT , GFAP-CreERT2 , Sox2CreERT2 , and Gli1CreERT2 and were long-lived in vivo . While GEPCOT NICs were ablated by temozolomide , pre-GEPCOT cells survived and repopulated the SVZ . Conditional deletion of the Bmi-1 polycomb protein depleted pre-GEPCOT and GEPCOT cells , though pre-GEPCOT cells wer
Piezo1 is a mechanically activated ion channel involved in sensing forces in various cell types and tissues . Cryo-electron microscopy has revealed that the Piezo1 structure is bowl-shaped and capable of inducing membrane curvature via its extended footprint , which indirectly suggests that Piezo1 ion channels may bias each other’s spatial distribution and interact functionally . Here , we use cell-attached patch-clamp electrophysiology and pressure-clamp stimulation to functionally examine large numbers of membrane patches from cells expressing Piezo1 endogenously at low levels and cells overexpressing Piezo1 at high levels . Our data , together with stochastic simulations of Piezo1 spatial distributions , show that both at endogenous densities ( 1–2 channels/μm2 ) , and at non-physiological densities ( 10–100 channels/μm2 ) predicted to cause substantial footprint overlap , Piezo1 density has no effect on its pressure sensitivity or open probability in the nominal absence of membrane
Many decisions are thought to arise via the accumulation of noisy evidence to a threshold or bound . In perception , the mechanism explains the effect of stimulus strength , characterized by signal-to-noise ratio , on decision speed , accuracy and confidence . It also makes intriguing predictions about the noise itself . An increase in noise should lead to faster decisions , reduced accuracy and , paradoxically , higher confidence . To test these predictions , we introduce a novel sensory manipulation that mimics the addition of unbiased noise to motion-selective regions of visual cortex , which we verified with neuronal recordings from macaque areas MT/MST . For both humans and monkeys , increasing the noise induced faster decisions and greater confidence over a range of stimuli for which accuracy was minimally impaired . The magnitude of the effects was in agreement with predictions of a bounded evidence accumulation model . 
The insulin-like signaling pathway maintains a relatively short wild-type lifespan in Caenorhabditis elegans by phosphorylating and inactivating DAF-16 , the ortholog of the FOXO transcription factors of mammalian cells . DAF-16 is phosphorylated by the AKT kinases , preventing its nuclear translocation . Calcineurin ( PP2B phosphatase ) also limits the lifespan of C . elegans , but the mechanism through which it does so is unknown . Herein , we show that TAX-6•CNB-1 and UNC-43 , the C . elegans Calcineurin and Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent kinase type II ( CAMKII ) orthologs , respectively , also regulate lifespan through DAF-16 . Moreover , UNC-43 regulates DAF-16 in response to various stress conditions , including starvation , heat or oxidative stress , and cooperatively contributes to lifespan regulation by insulin signaling . However , unlike insulin signaling , UNC-43 phosphorylates and activates DAF-16 , thus promoting its nuclear localization . The phosphorylation of DAF-16 at S28
Motor sequences are formed through the serial execution of different movements , but how nervous systems implement this process remains largely unknown . We determined the organizational principles governing how dirty fruit flies groom their bodies with sequential movements . Using genetically targeted activation of neural subsets , we drove distinct motor programs that clean individual body parts . This enabled competition experiments revealing that the motor programs are organized into a suppression hierarchy; motor programs that occur first suppress those that occur later . Cleaning one body part reduces the sensory drive to its motor program , which relieves suppression of the next movement , allowing the grooming sequence to progress down the hierarchy . A model featuring independently evoked cleaning movements activated in parallel , but selected serially through hierarchical suppression , was successful in reproducing the grooming sequence . This provides the first example of an
Accurate chromosome segregation depends on coordination between cohesion resolution and kinetochore-microtubule interactions ( K-fibers ) , a process regulated by the spindle assembly checkpoint ( SAC ) . How these diverse processes are coordinated remains unclear . We show that in mammalian oocytes Shugoshin-like protein 2 ( Sgol2 ) in addition to protecting cohesin , plays an important role in turning off the SAC , in promoting the congression and bi-orientation of bivalents on meiosis I spindles , in facilitating formation of K-fibers and in limiting bivalent stretching . Sgol2’s ability to protect cohesin depends on its interaction with PP2A , as is its ability to silence the SAC , with the latter being mediated by direct binding to Mad2 . In contrast , its effect on bivalent stretching and K-fiber formation is independent of PP2A and mediated by recruitment of MCAK and inhibition of Aurora C kinase activity respectively . By virtue of its multiple interactions , Sgol2 links many o
The persistence of experience-dependent changes in brain connectivity requires RNA localization and protein synthesis . Previous studies have demonstrated a role for local translation in altering the structure and function of synapses during synapse formation and experience-dependent synaptic plasticity . In this study , we ask whether in addition to promoting local translation , local stimulation also triggers directed trafficking of RNAs from nucleus to stimulated synapses . Imaging of RNA localization and translation in cultured Aplysia sensory-motor neurons revealed that RNAs were delivered throughout the arbor of the sensory neuron , but that translation was enriched only at sites of synaptic contact and/or synaptic stimulation . Investigation of the mechanisms that trigger local translation revealed a role for calcium-dependent retrograde netrin-1/DCC receptor signaling . Spatially restricting gene expression by regulating local translation rather than by directing the delivery o
Morphogenesis involves interactions of asymmetric cell populations to form complex multicellular patterns and structures comprised of distinct cell types . However , current methods to model morphogenic events lack control over cell-type co-emergence and offer little capability to selectively perturb specific cell subpopulations . Our in vitro system interrogates cell-cell interactions and multicellular organization within human induced pluripotent stem cell ( hiPSC ) colonies . We examined effects of induced mosaic knockdown of molecular regulators of cortical tension ( ROCK1 ) and cell-cell adhesion ( CDH1 ) with CRISPR interference . Mosaic knockdown of ROCK1 or CDH1 resulted in differential patterning within hiPSC colonies due to cellular self-organization , while retaining an epithelial pluripotent phenotype . Knockdown induction stimulates a transient wave of differential gene expression within the mixed populations that stabilized in coordination with observed self-organization 
"Encoding precision in visual working memory decreases with the number of encoded items . Here , we propose a normative theory for such set size effects: the brain minimizes a weighted sum of an error-based behavioral cost and a neural encoding cost . We construct a model from this theory and find that it predicts set size effects . Notably , these effects are mediated by probing probability , which aligns with previous empirical findings . The model accounts well for effects of both set size and probing probability on encoding precision in nine delayed-estimation experiments . Moreover , we find support for the prediction that the total amount of invested resource can vary non-monotonically with set size . Finally , we show that it is sometimes optimal to encode only a subset or even none of the relevant items in a task . Our findings raise the possibility that cognitive ""limitations"" arise from rational cost minimization rather than from constraints . "
Plants use autophagy to safeguard against infectious diseases . However , how plant pathogens interfere with autophagy-related processes is unknown . Here , we show that PexRD54 , an effector from the Irish potato famine pathogen Phytophthora infestans , binds host autophagy protein ATG8CL to stimulate autophagosome formation . PexRD54 depletes the autophagy cargo receptor Joka2 out of ATG8CL complexes and interferes with Joka2's positive effect on pathogen defense . Thus , a plant pathogen effector has evolved to antagonize a host autophagy cargo receptor to counteract host defenses . 
Upon cardiac pathological conditions such as ischemia , microenvironmental changes instruct a series of cellular responses that trigger cardiac fibroblasts-mediated tissue adaptation and inflammation . A comprehensive model of how early environmental changes may induce cardiac fibroblasts ( CF ) pathological responses is far from being elucidated , partly due to the lack of approaches involving complex and simultaneous environmental stimulation . Here , we provide a first analysis of human primary CF behavior by means of a multi-stimulus microdevice for combined application of cyclic mechanical strain and controlled oxygen tension . Our findings elucidate differential human CFs responses to different combinations of the above stimuli . Individual stimuli cause proliferative effects ( PHH3+ mitotic cells , YAP translocation , PDGF secretion ) or increase collagen presence . Interestingly , only the combination of hypoxia and a simulated loss of contractility ( 2% strain ) is able to add
Histone acetylation and deposition of H2A . Z variant are integral aspects of active transcription . In Drosophila , the single DOMINO chromatin regulator complex is thought to combine both activities via an unknown mechanism . Here we show that alternative isoforms of the DOMINO nucleosome remodeling ATPase , DOM-A and DOM-B , directly specify two distinct multi-subunit complexes . Both complexes are necessary for transcriptional regulation but through different mechanisms . The DOM-B complex incorporates H2A . V ( the fly ortholog of H2A . Z ) genome-wide in an ATP-dependent manner , like the yeast SWR1 complex . The DOM-A complex , instead , functions as an ATP-independent histone acetyltransferase complex similar to the yeast NuA4 , targeting lysine 12 of histone H4 . Our work provides an instructive example of how different evolutionary strategies lead to similar functional separation . In yeast and humans , nucleosome remodeling and histone acetyltransferase complexes originate f
Neuromuscular junction formation requires proper interaction between motoneurons and muscle cells . β-Catenin ( Ctnnb1 ) in muscle is critical for motoneuron differentiation; however , little is known about the relevant retrograde signal . In this paper , we dissected which functions of muscle Ctnnb1 are critical by an in vivo transgenic approach . We show that Ctnnb1 mutant without the transactivation domain was unable to rescue presynaptic deficits of Ctnnb1 mutation , indicating the involvement of transcription regulation . On the other hand , the cell-adhesion function of Ctnnb1 is dispensable . We screened for proteins that may serve as a Ctnnb1-directed retrograde factor and identified Slit2 . Transgenic expression of Slit2 specifically in the muscle was able to diminish presynaptic deficits by Ctnnb1 mutation in mice . Slit2 immobilized on beads was able to induce synaptophysin puncta in axons of spinal cord explants . Together , these observations suggest that Slit2 serves as a
Force transduction at cell-cell adhesions regulates tissue development , maintenance and adaptation . We developed computational and experimental approaches to quantify , with both sub-cellular and multi-cellular resolution , the dynamics of force transmission in cell clusters . Applying this technology to spontaneously-forming adherent epithelial cell clusters , we found that basal force fluctuations were coupled to E-cadherin localization at the level of individual cell-cell junctions . At the multi-cellular scale , cell-cell force exchange depended on the cell position within a cluster , and was adaptive to reconfigurations due to cell divisions or positional rearrangements . Importantly , force transmission through a cell required coordinated modulation of cell-matrix adhesion and actomyosin contractility in the cell and its neighbors . These data provide insights into mechanisms that could control mechanical stress homeostasis in dynamic epithelial tissues , and highlight our meth
The polyglutamine expansion in huntingtin protein causes Huntington’s disease . Here , we investigated structural and biochemical properties of huntingtin and the effect of the polyglutamine expansion using various biophysical experiments including circular dichroism , single-particle electron microscopy and cross-linking mass spectrometry . Huntingtin is likely composed of five distinct domains and adopts a spherical α-helical solenoid where the amino-terminal and carboxyl-terminal regions fold to contain a circumscribed central cavity . Interestingly , we showed that the polyglutamine expansion increases α-helical properties of huntingtin and affects the intramolecular interactions among the domains . Our work delineates the structural characteristics of full-length huntingtin , which are affected by the polyglutamine expansion , and provides an elegant solution to the apparent conundrum of how the extreme amino-terminal polyglutamine tract confers a novel property on huntingtin , ca
NCOA4 is a selective cargo receptor for the autophagic turnover of ferritin , a process critical for regulation of intracellular iron bioavailability . However , how ferritinophagy flux is controlled and the roles of NCOA4 in iron-dependent processes are poorly understood . Through analysis of the NCOA4-FTH1 interaction , we demonstrate that direct association via a key surface arginine in FTH1 and a C-terminal element in NCOA4 is required for delivery of ferritin to the lysosome via autophagosomes . Moreover , NCOA4 abundance is under dual control via autophagy and the ubiquitin proteasome system . Ubiquitin-dependent NCOA4 turnover is promoted by excess iron and involves an iron-dependent interaction between NCOA4 and the HERC2 ubiquitin ligase . In zebrafish and cultured cells , NCOA4 plays an essential role in erythroid differentiation . This work reveals the molecular nature of the NCOA4-ferritin complex and explains how intracellular iron levels modulate NCOA4-mediated ferritinop
Higher-level cognition depends on the lateral prefrontal cortex ( LPFC ) , but its functional organization has remained elusive . An influential proposal is that the LPFC is organized hierarchically whereby progressively rostral areas of the LPFC process/represent increasingly abstract information facilitating efficient and flexible cognition . However , support for this theory has been limited . Here , human fMRI data revealed rostral/caudal gradients of abstraction in the LPFC . Dynamic causal modeling revealed asymmetrical LPFC interactions indicative of hierarchical processing . Contrary to dominant assumptions , the relative strength of efferent versus afferent connections positioned mid LPFC as the apex of the hierarchy . Furthermore , cognitive demands induced connectivity modulations towards mid LPFC consistent with a role in integrating information for control operations . Moreover , the strengths of these dynamics were related to trait-measured higher-level cognitive ability 
Cortical expansion and folding are often linked to the evolution of higher intelligence , but molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying cortical folding remain poorly understood . The hominoid-specific gene TBC1D3 undergoes segmental duplications during hominoid evolution , but its role in brain development has not been explored . Here , we found that expression of TBC1D3 in ventricular cortical progenitors of mice via in utero electroporation caused delamination of ventricular radial glia cells ( vRGs ) and promoted generation of self-renewing basal progenitors with typical morphology of outer radial glia ( oRG ) , which are most abundant in primates . Furthermore , down-regulation of TBC1D3 in cultured human brain slices decreased generation of oRGs . Interestingly , localized oRG proliferation resulting from either in utero electroporation or transgenic expression of TBC1D3 , was often found to underlie cortical regions exhibiting folding . Thus , we have identified a hominoid ge
Activation of systemic acquired resistance in plants is associated with transcriptome reprogramming induced by the unstable coactivator NPR1 . Immune-induced ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of NPR1 are thought to facilitate continuous delivery of active NPR1 to target promoters , thereby maximising gene expression . Because of this potentially costly sacrificial process , we investigated if ubiquitination of NPR1 plays transcriptional roles prior to its proteasomal turnover . Here we show ubiquitination of NPR1 is a progressive event in which initial modification by a Cullin-RING E3 ligase promotes its chromatin association and expression of target genes . Only when polyubiquitination of NPR1 is enhanced by the E4 ligase , UBE4 , it is targeted for proteasomal degradation . Conversely , ubiquitin ligase activities are opposed by UBP6/7 , two proteasome-associated deubiquitinases that enhance NPR1 longevity . Thus , immune-induced transcriptome reprogramming requires sequenti
In Arabidopsis thaliana , abundant 24 nucleotide small interfering RNAs ( 24 nt siRNA ) guide the cytosine methylation and silencing of transposons and a subset of genes . 24 nt siRNA biogenesis requires nuclear RNA polymerase IV ( Pol IV ) , RNA-dependent RNA polymerase 2 ( RDR2 ) and DICER-like 3 ( DCL3 ) . However , siRNA precursors are mostly undefined . We identified Pol IV and RDR2-dependent RNAs ( P4R2 RNAs ) that accumulate in dcl3 mutants and are diced into 24 nt RNAs by DCL3 in vitro . P4R2 RNAs are mostly 26-45 nt and initiate with a purine adjacent to a pyrimidine , characteristics shared by Pol IV transcripts generated in vitro . RDR2 terminal transferase activity , also demonstrated in vitro , may account for occasional non-templated nucleotides at P4R2 RNA 3’ termini . The 24 nt siRNAs primarily correspond to the 5’ or 3’ ends of P4R2 RNAs , suggesting a model whereby siRNAs are generated from either end of P4R2 duplexes by single dicing events . 
Mature neural networks synchronize and integrate spatiotemporal activity patterns to support cognition . Emergence of these activity patterns and functions is believed to be developmentally regulated , but the postnatal time course for neural networks to perform complex computations remains unknown . We investigate the progression of large-scale synaptic and cellular activity patterns across development using high spatiotemporal resolution in vivo electrophysiology in immature mice . We reveal that mature cortical processes emerge rapidly and simultaneously after a discrete but volatile transition period at the beginning of the second postnatal week of rodent development . The transition is characterized by relative neural quiescence , after which spatially distributed , temporally precise , and internally organized activity occurs . We demonstrate a similar developmental trajectory in humans , suggesting an evolutionarily conserved mechanism that could facilitate a transition in netwo
The coexistence of multiple independently circulating strains in pathogen populations that undergo sexual recombination is a central question of epidemiology with profound implications for control . An agent-based model is developed that extends earlier ‘strain theory’ by addressing the var gene family of Plasmodium falciparum . The model explicitly considers the extensive diversity of multi-copy genes that undergo antigenic variation via sequential , mutually exclusive expression . It tracks the dynamics of all unique var repertoires in a population of hosts , and shows that even under high levels of sexual recombination , strain competition mediated through cross-immunity structures the parasite population into a subset of coexisting dominant repertoires of var genes whose degree of antigenic overlap depends on transmission intensity . Empirical comparison of patterns of genetic variation at antigenic and neutral sites supports this role for immune selection in structuring parasite d
The deamidase OspI from enteric bacteria Shigella flexneri deamidates a glutamine residue in the host ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme UBC13 and converts it to glutamate ( Q100E ) . Consequently , its polyubiquitination activity in complex with the RING-finger ubiquitin ligase TRAF6 and the downstream NF-κB inflammatory response is silenced . The precise role of deamidation in silencing the UBC13/TRAF6 complex is unknown . We report that deamidation inhibits the interaction between UBC13 and TRAF6 RING-domain ( TRAF6RING ) by perturbing both the native and transient interactions . Deamidation creates a new intramolecular salt-bridge in UBC13 that competes with a critical intermolecular salt-bridge at the native UBC13/TRAF6RING interface . Moreover , the salt-bridge competition prevents transient interactions necessary to form a typical UBC13/RING complex . Repulsion between E100 and the negatively charged surface of RING also prevents transient interactions in the UBC13/RING complex . Our 
Bidirectional manipulations – activation and inactivation – are widely used to identify the functions supported by specific cortical interneuron types . Implicit in much of this work is the notion that tonic activation and inactivation will both produce valid , internally consistent insights into interneurons’ computational roles . Here , using single-unit recordings in auditory cortex of awake mice , we show that this may not generally hold true . Optogenetically manipulating somatostatin-positive ( Sst+ ) or parvalbumin-positive ( Pvalb+ ) interneurons while recording tone-responses showed that Sst+ inactivation increased response gain , while Pvalb+ inactivation weakened tuning and decreased information transfer , implying that these neurons support delineable computational functions . But activating Sst+ and Pvalb+ interneurons revealed no such differences . We used a simple network model to understand this asymmetry , and showed how relatively small changes in key parameters , suc
Cognitive functions such as working memory ( WM ) are emergent properties of large-scale network interactions . Synchronisation of oscillatory activity might contribute to WM by enabling the coordination of long-range processes . However , causal evidence for the way oscillatory activity shapes network dynamics and behavior in humans is limited . Here we applied transcranial alternating current stimulation ( tACS ) to exogenously modulate oscillatory activity in a right frontoparietal network that supports WM . Externally induced synchronization improved performance when cognitive demands were high . Simultaneously collected fMRI data reveals tACS effects dependent on the relative phase of the stimulation and the internal cognitive processing state . Specifically , synchronous tACS during the verbal WM task increased parietal activity , which correlated with behavioral performance . Furthermore , functional connectivity results indicate that the relative phase of frontoparietal stimula
Embryonic polarity of invertebrates , amphibians and fish is specified largely by maternal determinants , which fixes cell fates early in development . In contrast , amniote embryos remain plastic and can form multiple individuals until gastrulation . How is their polarity determined ? In the chick embryo , the earliest known factor is cVg1 ( homologous to mammalian growth differentiation factor 1 , GDF1 ) , a transforming growth factor beta ( TGFβ ) signal expressed posteriorly before gastrulation . A molecular screen to find upstream regulators of cVg1 in normal embryos and in embryos manipulated to form twins now uncovers the transcription factor Pitx2 as a candidate . We show that Pitx2 is essential for axis formation , and that it acts as a direct regulator of cVg1 expression by binding to enhancers within neighbouring genes . Pitx2 , Vg1/GDF1 and Nodal are also key actors in left–right asymmetry , suggesting that the same ancient polarity determination mechanism has been co-opted
Temporal experience of odor gradients is important in spatial orientation of animals . The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster exhibits robust odor-guided behaviors in an odor gradient field . In order to investigate how early olfactory circuits process temporal variation of olfactory stimuli , we subjected flies to precisely defined odor concentration waveforms and examined spike patterns of olfactory sensory neurons ( OSNs ) and projection neurons ( PNs ) . We found a significant temporal transformation between OSN and PN spike patterns , manifested by the PN output strongly signaling the OSN spike rate and its rate of change . A simple two-dimensional model admitting the OSN spike rate and its rate of change as inputs closely predicted the PN output . When cascaded with the rate-of-change encoding by OSNs , PNs primarily signal the acceleration and the rate of change of dynamic odor stimuli to higher brain centers , thereby enabling animals to reliably respond to the onsets of odor co
In flowering plants , seed development is initiated by the fusion of the maternal egg and central cells with two paternal sperm cells , leading to the formation of embryo and endosperm , respectively . The fertilization products are surrounded by the maternally derived seed coat , whose development prior to fertilization is blocked by epigenetic regulators belonging to the Polycomb Group ( PcG ) protein family . Here we show that fertilization of the central cell results in the production of auxin and most likely its export to the maternal tissues , which drives seed coat development by removing PcG function . We furthermore show that mutants for the MADS-box transcription factor AGL62 have an impaired transport of auxin from the endosperm to the integuments , which results in seed abortion . We propose that AGL62 regulates auxin transport from the endosperm to the integuments , leading to the removal of the PcG block on seed coat development . 
The interaction between a bacteriophage and its host is mediated by the phage's receptor binding protein ( RBP ) . Despite its fundamental role in governing phage activity and host range , molecular rules of RBP function remain a mystery . Here , we systematically dissect the functional role of every residue in the tip domain of T7 phage RBP ( 1660 variants ) by developing a high-throughput , locus-specific , phage engineering method . This rich dataset allowed us to cross compare functional profiles across hosts to precisely identify regions of functional importance , many of which were previously unknown . Substitution patterns showed host-specific differences in position and physicochemical properties of mutations , revealing molecular adaptation to individual hosts . We discovered gain-of-function variants against resistant hosts and host-constricting variants that eliminated certain hosts . To demonstrate therapeutic utility , we engineered highly active T7 variants against a urin
Individuals with congenital amusia have a lifelong history of unreliable pitch processing . Accordingly , they downweight pitch cues during speech perception and instead rely on other dimensions such as duration . We investigated the neural basis for this strategy . During fMRI , individuals with amusia ( N = 15 ) and controls ( N = 15 ) read sentences where a comma indicated a grammatical phrase boundary . They then heard two sentences spoken that differed only in pitch and/or duration cues and selected the best match for the written sentence . Prominent reductions in functional connectivity were detected in the amusia group between left prefrontal language-related regions and right hemisphere pitch-related regions , which reflected the between-group differences in cue weights in the same groups of listeners . Connectivity differences between these regions were not present during a control task . Our results indicate that the reliability of perceptual dimensions is linked with functio
Devil Facial Tumour 2 ( DFT2 ) is a recently discovered contagious cancer circulating in the Tasmanian devil ( Sarcophilus harrisii ) , a species which already harbours a more widespread contagious cancer , Devil Facial Tumour 1 ( DFT1 ) . Here we show that in contrast to DFT1 , DFT2 cells express major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I molecules , demonstrating that loss of MHC is not necessary for the emergence of a contagious cancer . However , the most highly expressed MHC class I alleles in DFT2 cells are common among host devils or non-polymorphic , reducing immunogenicity in a population sharing these alleles . In parallel , MHC class I loss is emerging in vivo , thus DFT2 may be mimicking the evolutionary trajectory of DFT1 . Based on these results we propose that contagious cancers may exploit partial histocompatibility between the tumour and host , but that loss of allogeneic antigens could facilitate widespread transmission of DFT2 . 
The granular retrosplenial cortex ( RSG ) is critical for both spatial and non-spatial behaviors , but the underlying neural codes remain poorly understood . Here , we use optogenetic circuit mapping in mice to reveal a double dissociation that allows parallel circuits in superficial RSG to process disparate inputs . The anterior thalamus and dorsal subiculum , sources of spatial information , strongly and selectively recruit small low-rheobase ( LR ) pyramidal cells in RSG . In contrast , neighboring regular-spiking ( RS ) cells are preferentially controlled by claustral and anterior cingulate inputs , sources of mostly non-spatial information . Precise sublaminar axonal and dendritic arborization within RSG layer 1 , in particular , permits this parallel processing . Observed thalamocortical synaptic dynamics enable computational models of LR neurons to compute the speed of head rotation , despite receiving head direction inputs that do not explicitly encode speed . Thus , parallel i
Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) is a prominent risk factor for dementias including tauopathies like chronic traumatic encephalopathy ( CTE ) . The mechanisms that promote prion-like spreading of Tau aggregates after TBI are not fully understood , in part due to lack of tractable animal models . Here , we test the putative role of seizures in promoting the spread of tauopathy . We introduce ‘tauopathy reporter’ zebrafish expressing a genetically encoded fluorescent Tau biosensor that reliably reports accumulation of human Tau species when seeded via intraventricular brain injections . Subjecting zebrafish larvae to a novel TBI paradigm produced various TBI features including cell death , post–traumatic seizures , and Tau inclusions . Bath application of dynamin inhibitors or anticonvulsant drugs rescued TBI-induced tauopathy and cell death . These data suggest a role for seizure activity in the prion-like seeding and spreading of tauopathy following TBI . Further work is warranted regard
Brain connectivity is often considered in terms of the communication between functionally distinct brain regions . Many studies have investigated the extent to which patterns of coupling strength between multiple neural populations relates to behaviour . For example , studies have used ‘functional connectivity fingerprints’ to characterise individuals' brain activity . Here , we investigate the extent to which the exact spatial arrangement of cortical regions interacts with measures of brain connectivity . We find that the shape and exact location of brain regions interact strongly with the modelling of brain connectivity , and present evidence that the spatial arrangement of functional regions is strongly predictive of non-imaging measures of behaviour and lifestyle . We believe that , in many cases , cross-subject variations in the spatial configuration of functional brain regions are being interpreted as changes in functional connectivity . Therefore , a better understanding of thes
Change in the identity of the components of the transcription pre-initiation complex is proposed to control cell type-specific gene expression . Replacement of the canonical TFIID-TBP complex with TRF3/TBP2 was reported to be required for activation of muscle-gene expression . The lack of a developmental phenotype in TBP2 null mice prompted further analysis to determine whether TBP2 deficiency can compromise adult myogenesis . We show here that TBP2 null mice have an intact regeneration potential upon injury and that TBP2 is not expressed in established C2C12 muscle cell or in primary mouse MuSCs . While TFIID subunits and TBP are downregulated during myoblast differentiation , reduced amounts of these proteins form a complex that is detectable on promoters of muscle genes and is essential for their expression . This evidence demonstrates that TBP2 does not replace TBP during muscle differentiation , as previously proposed , with limiting amounts of TFIID-TBP being required to promote 
Brain stimulation modulates the excitability of neural circuits and drives neuroplasticity . While the local effects of stimulation have been an active area of investigation , the effects on large-scale networks remain largely unexplored . We studied stimulation-induced changes in network dynamics in two macaques . A large-scale optogenetic interface enabled simultaneous stimulation of excitatory neurons and electrocorticographic recording across primary somatosensory ( S1 ) and motor ( M1 ) cortex ( Yazdan-Shahmorad et al . , 2016 ) . We tracked two measures of network connectivity , the network response to focal stimulation and the baseline coherence between pairs of electrodes; these were strongly correlated before stimulation . Within minutes , stimulation in S1 or M1 significantly strengthened the gross functional connectivity between these areas . At a finer scale , stimulation led to heterogeneous connectivity changes across the network . These changes reflected the correlations
Lesions of primary visual cortex ( V1 ) lead to loss of conscious visual perception with significant impact on human patients . Understanding the neural consequences of such damage may aid the development of rehabilitation methods . In this rare case of a Rhesus macaque ( monkey S ) , likely born without V1 , the animal’s in-group behaviour was unremarkable , but visual task training was impaired . With multi-modal magnetic resonance imaging , visual structures outside of the lesion appeared normal . Visual stimulation under anaesthesia with checkerboards activated lateral geniculate nucleus of monkey S , while full-field moving dots activated pulvinar . Visual cortical activation was sparse but included face patches . Consistently across lesion and control monkeys , functional connectivity analysis revealed an intact network of bilateral dorsal visual areas temporally correlated with V5/MT activation , even without V1 . Despite robust subcortical responses to visual stimulation , we f
The ability to recognize foreign double-stranded ( ds ) DNA of pathogenic origin in the intracellular environment is an essential defense mechanism of the human innate immune system . However , the molecular mechanisms underlying distinction between foreign DNA and host genomic material inside the nucleus are not understood . By combining biochemical assays and single-molecule techniques , we show that the nuclear innate immune sensor IFI16 one-dimensionally tracks long stretches of exposed foreign dsDNA to assemble into supramolecular signaling platforms . We also demonstrate that nucleosomes represent barriers that prevent IFI16 from targeting host DNA by directly interfering with these one-dimensional movements . This unique scanning-assisted assembly mechanism allows IFI16 to distinguish friend from foe and assemble into oligomers efficiently and selectively on foreign DNA . 
Spatially targeted optical microproteomics ( STOMP ) is a novel proteomics technique for interrogating micron-scale regions of interest ( ROIs ) in mammalian tissue , with no requirement for genetic manipulation . Methanol or formalin-fixed specimens are stained with fluorescent dyes or antibodies to visualize ROIs , then soaked in solutions containing the photo-tag: 4-benzoylbenzyl-glycyl-hexahistidine . Confocal imaging along with two photon excitation are used to covalently couple photo-tags to all proteins within each ROI , to a resolution of 0 . 67 µm in the xy-plane and 1 . 48 µm axially . After tissue solubilization , photo-tagged proteins are isolated and identified by mass spectrometry . As a test case , we examined amyloid plaques in an Alzheimer's disease ( AD ) mouse model and a post-mortem AD case , confirming known plaque constituents and discovering new ones . STOMP can be applied to various biological samples including cell lines , primary cell cultures , ex vivo specim
Disruption of the Frizzled3 ( Fz3 ) gene leads to defects in axonal growth in the VIIth and XIIth cranial motor nerves , the phrenic nerve , and the dorsal motor nerve in fore- and hindlimbs . In Fz3−/− limbs , dorsal axons stall at a precise location in the nerve plexus , and , in contrast to the phenotypes of several other axon path-finding mutants , Fz3−/− dorsal axons do not reroute to other trajectories . Affected motor neurons undergo cell death 2 days prior to the normal wave of developmental cell death that coincides with innervation of muscle targets , providing in vivo evidence for the idea that developing neurons with long-range axons are programmed to die unless their axons arrive at intermediate targets on schedule . These experiments implicate planar cell polarity ( PCP ) signaling in motor axon growth and they highlight the question of how PCP proteins , which form cell–cell complexes in epithelia , function in the dynamic context of axonal growth . 
Transposable elements ( TEs ) are thought to have helped establish gene regulatory networks . Both the embryonic and extraembryonic lineages of the early mouse embryo have seemingly co-opted TEs as enhancers , but there is little evidence that they play significant roles in gene regulation . Here we tested a set of long terminal repeat TE families for roles as enhancers in mouse embryonic and trophoblast stem cells . Epigenomic and transcriptomic data suggested that a large number of TEs helped to establish tissue-specific gene expression programmes . Genetic editing of individual TEs confirmed a subset of these regulatory relationships . However , a wider survey via CRISPR interference of RLTR13D6 elements in embryonic stem cells revealed that only a minority play significant roles in gene regulation . Our results suggest that a subset of TEs are important for gene regulation in early mouse development , and highlight the importance of functional experiments when evaluating gene regul
C4 photosynthesis has independently evolved from the ancestral C3 pathway in at least 60 plant lineages , but , as with other complex traits , how it evolved is unclear . Here we show that the polyphyletic appearance of C4 photosynthesis is associated with diverse and flexible evolutionary paths that group into four major trajectories . We conducted a meta-analysis of 18 lineages containing species that use C3 , C4 , or intermediate C3–C4 forms of photosynthesis to parameterise a 16-dimensional phenotypic landscape . We then developed and experimentally verified a novel Bayesian approach based on a hidden Markov model that predicts how the C4 phenotype evolved . The alternative evolutionary histories underlying the appearance of C4 photosynthesis were determined by ancestral lineage and initial phenotypic alterations unrelated to photosynthesis . We conclude that the order of C4 trait acquisition is flexible and driven by non-photosynthetic drivers . This flexibility will have facilita
Hydrolysis of nucleoside triphosphates releases similar amounts of energy . However , ATP hydrolysis is typically used for energy-intensive reactions , whereas GTP hydrolysis typically functions as a switch . SpoIVA is a bacterial cytoskeletal protein that hydrolyzes ATP to polymerize irreversibly during Bacillus subtilis sporulation . SpoIVA evolved from a TRAFAC class of P-loop GTPases , but the evolutionary pressure that drove this change in nucleotide specificity is unclear . We therefore reengineered the nucleotide-binding pocket of SpoIVA to mimic its ancestral GTPase activity . SpoIVAGTPase functioned properly as a GTPase but failed to polymerize because it did not form an NDP-bound intermediate that we report is required for polymerization . Further , incubation of SpoIVAGTPase with limiting ATP did not promote efficient polymerization . This approach revealed that the nucleotide base , in addition to the energy released from hydrolysis , can be critical in specific biological 
Leptin regulates energy balance and also exhibits neurotrophic effects during critical developmental periods . However , the actual role of leptin during development is not yet fully understood . To uncover the importance of leptin in early life , the present study restored leptin signaling either at the fourth or tenth week of age in mice formerly null for the leptin receptor ( LepR ) gene . We found that some defects previously considered irreversible due to neonatal deficiency of leptin signaling , including the poor development of arcuate nucleus neural projections , were recovered by LepR reactivation in adulthood . However , LepR deficiency in early life led to irreversible obesity via suppression of energy expenditure . LepR reactivation in adulthood also led to persistent reduction in hypothalamic Pomc , Cartpt and Prlh mRNA expression and to defects in the reproductive system and brain growth . Our findings revealed that early defects in leptin signaling cause permanent metabo
The Arabidopsis immune receptor FLS2 perceives bacterial flagellin epitope flg22 to activate defenses through the central cytoplasmic kinase BIK1 . The heterotrimeric G proteins composed of the non-canonical Gα protein XLG2 , the Gβ protein AGB1 , and the Gγ proteins AGG1 and AGG2 are required for FLS2-mediated immune responses through an unknown mechanism . Here we show that in the pre-activation state , XLG2 directly interacts with FLS2 and BIK1 , and it functions together with AGB1 and AGG1/2 to attenuate proteasome-mediated degradation of BIK1 , allowing optimum immune activation . Following the activation by flg22 , XLG2 dissociates from AGB1 and is phosphorylated by BIK1 in the N terminus . The phosphorylated XLG2 enhances the production of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) likely by modulating the NADPH oxidase RbohD . The study demonstrates that the G proteins are directly coupled to the FLS2 receptor complex and regulate immune signaling through both pre-activation and post-acti
The Arabidopsis circadian clock orchestrates gene regulation across the day/night cycle . Although a multiple feedback loop circuit has been shown to generate the 24-hr rhythm , it remains unclear how robust the clock is in individual cells , or how clock timing is coordinated across the plant . Here we examine clock activity at the single cell level across Arabidopsis seedlings over several days under constant environmental conditions . Our data reveal robust single cell oscillations , albeit desynchronised . In particular , we observe two waves of clock activity; one going down , and one up the root . We also find evidence of cell-to-cell coupling of the clock , especially in the root tip . A simple model shows that cell-to-cell coupling and our measured period differences between cells can generate the observed waves . Our results reveal the spatial structure of the plant clock and suggest that unlike the centralised mammalian clock , the Arabidopsis clock has multiple coordination 
In social settings , speech waveforms from nearby speakers mix together in our ear canals . Normally , the brain unmixes the attended speech stream from the chorus of background speakers using a combination of fast temporal processing and cognitive active listening mechanisms . Of >100 , 000 patient records , ~10% of adults visited our clinic because of reduced hearing , only to learn that their hearing was clinically normal and should not cause communication difficulties . We found that multi-talker speech intelligibility thresholds varied widely in normal hearing adults , but could be predicted from neural phase-locking to frequency modulation ( FM ) cues measured with ear canal EEG recordings . Combining neural temporal fine structure processing , pupil-indexed listening effort , and behavioral FM thresholds accounted for 78% of the variability in multi-talker speech intelligibility . The disordered bottom-up and top-down markers of poor multi-talker speech perception identified her
Tissue light scatter limits the visualization of the microvascular network deep inside the living mammal . The transparency of the mammalian eye provides a noninvasive view of the microvessels of the retina , a part of the central nervous system . Despite its clarity , imperfections in the optics of the eye blur microscopic retinal capillaries , and single blood cells flowing within . This limits early evaluation of microvascular diseases that originate in capillaries . To break this barrier , we use 15 kHz adaptive optics imaging to noninvasively measure single-cell blood flow , in one of the most widely used research animals: the C57BL/6J mouse . Measured flow ranged four orders of magnitude ( 0 . 0002–1 . 55 µL min–1 ) across the full spectrum of retinal vessel diameters ( 3 . 2–45 . 8 µm ) , without requiring surgery or contrast dye . Here , we describe the ultrafast imaging , analysis pipeline and automated measurement of millions of blood cell speeds . 
Symbiosis Receptor-like Kinase ( SYMRK ) is indispensable for the development of phosphate-acquiring arbuscular mycorrhiza ( AM ) as well as nitrogen-fixing root nodule symbiosis , but the mechanisms that discriminate between the two distinct symbiotic developmental fates have been enigmatic . In this study , we show that upon ectopic expression , the receptor-like kinase genes Nod Factor Receptor 1 ( NFR1 ) , NFR5 , and SYMRK initiate spontaneous nodule organogenesis and nodulation-related gene expression in the absence of rhizobia . Furthermore , overexpressed NFR1 or NFR5 associated with endogenous SYMRK in roots of the legume Lotus japonicus . Epistasis tests revealed that the dominant active SYMRK allele initiates signalling independently of either the NFR1 or NFR5 gene and upstream of a set of genes required for the generation or decoding of calcium-spiking in both symbioses . Only SYMRK but not NFR overexpression triggered the expression of AM-related genes , indicating that the
Quantitative behavioral measurements are important for answering questions across scientific disciplines—from neuroscience to ecology . State-of-the-art deep-learning methods offer major advances in data quality and detail by allowing researchers to automatically estimate locations of an animal’s body parts directly from images or videos . However , currently available animal pose estimation methods have limitations in speed and robustness . Here , we introduce a new easy-to-use software toolkit , DeepPoseKit , that addresses these problems using an efficient multi-scale deep-learning model , called Stacked DenseNet , and a fast GPU-based peak-detection algorithm for estimating keypoint locations with subpixel precision . These advances improve processing speed >2x with no loss in accuracy compared to currently available methods . We demonstrate the versatility of our methods with multiple challenging animal pose estimation tasks in laboratory and field settings—including groups of int
When innate immune cells such as macrophages are challenged with environmental stresses or infection by pathogens , they trigger the rapid assembly of multi-protein complexes called inflammasomes that are responsible for initiating pro-inflammatory responses and a form of cell death termed pyroptosis . We describe here the identification of an intracellular trigger of NLRP3-mediated inflammatory signaling , IL-1β production and pyroptosis in primed murine bone marrow-derived macrophages that is mediated by the disruption of glycolytic flux . This signal results from a drop of NADH levels and induction of mitochondrial ROS production and can be rescued by addition of products that restore NADH production . This signal is also important for host-cell response to the intracellular pathogen Salmonella typhimurium , which can disrupt metabolism by uptake of host-cell glucose . These results reveal an important inflammatory signaling network used by immune cells to sense metabolic dysfunctio
BReast Cancer Associated proteins 1 and 2 ( BRCA1 , −2 ) and Partner and Localizer of BRCA2 ( PALB2 ) protein are tumour suppressors linked to a spectrum of malignancies , including breast cancer and Fanconi anemia . PALB2 coordinates functions of BRCA1 and BRCA2 during homology-directed repair ( HDR ) and interacts with several chromatin proteins . In addition to protein scaffold function , PALB2 binds DNA . The functional role of this interaction is poorly understood . We identified a major DNA-binding site of PALB2 , mutations in which reduce RAD51 foci formation and the overall HDR efficiency in cells by 50% . PALB2 N-terminal DNA-binding domain ( N-DBD ) stimulates the function of RAD51 recombinase . Surprisingly , it possesses the strand exchange activity without RAD51 . Moreover , N-DBD stimulates the inverse strand exchange and can use DNA and RNA substrates . Our data reveal a versatile DNA interaction property of PALB2 and demonstrate a critical role of PALB2 DNA binding for 
Filaments of all actin-like proteins known to date are assembled from pairs of protofilaments that are arranged in a parallel fashion , generating polarity . In this study , we show that the prokaryotic actin homologue MreB forms pairs of protofilaments that adopt an antiparallel arrangement in vitro and in vivo . We provide an atomic view of antiparallel protofilaments of Caulobacter MreB as apparent from crystal structures . We show that a protofilament doublet is essential for MreB's function in cell shape maintenance and demonstrate by in vivo site-specific cross-linking the antiparallel orientation of MreB protofilaments in E . coli . 3D cryo-EM shows that pairs of protofilaments of Caulobacter MreB tightly bind to membranes . Crystal structures of different nucleotide and polymerisation states of Caulobacter MreB reveal conserved conformational changes accompanying antiparallel filament formation . Finally , the antimicrobial agents A22/MP265 are shown to bind close to the bound 
Invariant floral forms are important for reproductive success and robust to natural perturbations . Petal number , for example , is invariant in Arabidopsis thaliana flowers . However , petal number varies in the closely related species Cardamine hirsuta , and the genetic basis for this difference between species is unknown . Here we show that divergence in the pleiotropic floral regulator APETALA1 ( AP1 ) can account for the species-specific difference in petal number robustness . This large effect of AP1 is explained by epistatic interactions: A . thaliana AP1 confers robustness by masking the phenotypic expression of quantitative trait loci controlling petal number in C . hirsuta . We show that C . hirsuta AP1 fails to complement this function of A . thaliana AP1 , conferring variable petal number , and that upstream regulatory regions of AP1 contribute to this divergence . Moreover , variable petal number is maintained in C . hirsuta despite sufficient standing genetic variation in
Biosynthesis of insulin – critical to metabolic homeostasis – begins with folding of the proinsulin precursor , including formation of three evolutionarily conserved intramolecular disulfide bonds . Remarkably , normal pancreatic islets contain a subset of proinsulin molecules bearing at least one free cysteine thiol . In human ( or rodent ) islets with a perturbed endoplasmic reticulum folding environment , non-native proinsulin enters intermolecular disulfide-linked complexes . In genetically obese mice with otherwise wild-type islets , disulfide-linked complexes of proinsulin are more abundant , and leptin receptor-deficient mice , the further increase of such complexes tracks with the onset of islet insulin deficiency and diabetes . Proinsulin-Cys ( B19 ) and Cys ( A20 ) are necessary and sufficient for the formation of proinsulin disulfide-linked complexes; indeed , proinsulin Cys ( B19 ) -Cys ( B19 ) covalent homodimers resist reductive dissociation , highlighting a structural ba
SUV39H is the major histone H3 lysine 9 ( H3K9 ) -specific methyltransferase that targets pericentric regions and is crucial for assembling silent heterochromatin . SUV39H recognizes trimethylated H3K9 ( H3K9me3 ) via its chromodomain ( CD ) , and enriched H3K9me3 allows SUV39H to target specific chromosomal regions . However , the detailed targeting mechanisms , especially for naïve chromatin without preexisting H3K9me3 , are poorly understood . Here we show that Suv39h1’s CD ( Suv39h1-CD ) binds nucleic acids , and this binding is important for its function in heterochromatin assembly . Suv39h1-CD had higher binding affinity for RNA than DNA , and its ability to bind nucleic acids was independent of its H3K9me3 recognition . Suv39h1 bound major satellite RNAs in vivo , and knockdown of major satellite RNAs lowered Suv39h1 retention on pericentromere . Suv39h1 mutational studies indicated that both the nucleic acid–binding and H3K9me–binding activities of Suv39h1-CD were crucial for i
Grid cells in the entorhinal cortex allow for the precise decoding of position in space . Along with potentially playing an important role in navigation , grid cells have recently been hypothesized to make a general contribution to mental operations . A prerequisite for this hypothesis is that grid cell activity does not critically depend on physical movement . Here , we show that movement of covert attention , without any physical movement , also elicits spatial receptive fields with a triangular tiling of space . In monkeys trained to maintain central fixation while covertly attending to a stimulus moving in the periphery we identified a significant population ( 20/141 , 14% neurons at a FDR <5% ) of entorhinal cells with spatially structured receptive fields . This contrasts with recordings obtained in the hippocampus , where grid-like representations were not observed . Our results provide evidence that neurons in macaque entorhinal cortex do not rely on physical movement . 
Progress in science requires standardized assays whose results can be readily shared , compared , and reproduced across laboratories . Reproducibility , however , has been a concern in neuroscience , particularly for measurements of mouse behavior . Here , we show that a standardized task to probe decision-making in mice produces reproducible results across multiple laboratories . We adopted a task for head-fixed mice that assays perceptual and value-based decision making , and we standardized training protocol and experimental hardware , software , and procedures . We trained 140 mice across seven laboratories in three countries , and we collected 5 million mouse choices into a publicly available database . Learning speed was variable across mice and laboratories , but once training was complete there were no significant differences in behavior across laboratories . Mice in different laboratories adopted similar reliance on visual stimuli , on past successes and failures , and on esti
Proper function and repair of the digestive system are vital to most animals . Deciphering the mechanisms involved in these processes requires an atlas of gene expression and cell types . Here , we applied laser-capture microdissection ( LCM ) and RNA-seq to characterize the intestinal transcriptome of Schmidtea mediterranea , a planarian flatworm that can regenerate all organs , including the gut . We identified hundreds of genes with intestinal expression undetected by previous approaches . Systematic analyses revealed extensive conservation of digestive physiology and cell types with other animals , including humans . Furthermore , spatial LCM enabled us to uncover previously unappreciated regionalization of gene expression in the planarian intestine along the medio-lateral axis , especially among intestinal goblet cells . Finally , we identified two intestine-enriched transcription factors that specifically regulate regeneration ( hedgehog signaling effector gli-1 ) or maintenance 
Adaptations to an organism's environment often involve sensory system modifications . In this study , we address how evolutionary divergence in sensory perception relates to the physiological coding of stimuli . Mormyrid fishes that can detect subtle variations in electric communication signals encode signal waveform into spike-timing differences between sensory receptors . In contrast , the receptors of species insensitive to waveform variation produce spontaneously oscillating potentials . We found that oscillating receptors respond to electric pulses by resetting their phase , resulting in transient synchrony among receptors that encodes signal timing and location , but not waveform . These receptors were most sensitive to frequencies found only in the collective signals of groups of conspecifics , and this was correlated with increased behavioral responses to these frequencies . Thus , different perceptual capabilities correspond to different receptor physiologies . We hypothesize 
Bacteriophage BPP-1 infects and kills Bordetella species that cause whooping cough . Its diversity-generating retroelement ( DGR ) provides a naturally occurring phage-display system , but engineering efforts are hampered without atomic structures . Here , we report a cryo electron microscopy structure of the BPP-1 head at 3 . 5 Å resolution . Our atomic model shows two of the three protein folds representing major viral lineages: jellyroll for its cement protein ( CP ) and HK97-like ( ‘Johnson’ ) for its major capsid protein ( MCP ) . Strikingly , the fold topology of MCP is permuted non-circularly from the Johnson fold topology previously seen in viral and cellular proteins . We illustrate that the new topology is likely the only feasible alternative of the old topology . β-sheet augmentation and electrostatic interactions contribute to the formation of non-covalent chainmail in BPP-1 , unlike covalent inter-protein linkages of the HK97 chainmail . Despite these complex interactions 
Dengue virus ( DENV ) cycles between mosquito and mammalian hosts . To examine how DENV populations adapt to these different host environments , we used serial passage in human and mosquito cell lines and estimated fitness effects for all single-nucleotide variants in these populations using ultra-deep sequencing . This allowed us to determine the contributions of beneficial and deleterious mutations to the collective fitness of the population . Our analysis revealed that the continuous influx of a large burden of deleterious mutations counterbalances the effect of rare , host-specific beneficial mutations to shape the path of adaptation . Beneficial mutations preferentially map to intrinsically disordered domains in the viral proteome and cluster to defined regions in the genome . These phenotypically redundant adaptive alleles may facilitate host-specific DENV adaptation . Importantly , the evolutionary constraints described in our simple system mirror trends observed across DENV and
Membrane nanodomains have been implicated in Ras signaling , but what these domains are and how they interact with Ras remain obscure . Here , using single particle tracking with photoactivated localization microscopy ( spt-PALM ) and detailed trajectory analysis , we show that distinct membrane domains dictate KRasG12D ( an active KRas mutant ) diffusion and trafficking in U2OS cells . KRasG12D exhibits an immobile state in ~70 nm domains , each embedded in a larger domain ( ~200 nm ) that confers intermediate mobility , while the rest of the membrane supports fast diffusion . Moreover , KRasG12D is continuously removed from the membrane via the immobile state and replenished to the fast state , reminiscent of Ras internalization and recycling . Importantly , both the diffusion and trafficking properties of KRasG12D remain invariant over a broad range of protein expression levels . Our results reveal how membrane organization dictates membrane diffusion and trafficking of Ras and offe
A morphogen gradient of Bone Morphogenetic Protein ( BMP ) signaling patterns the dorsoventral embryonic axis of vertebrates and invertebrates . The prevailing view in vertebrates for BMP gradient formation is through a counter-gradient of BMP antagonists , often along with ligand shuttling to generate peak signaling levels . To delineate the mechanism in zebrafish , we precisely quantified the BMP activity gradient in wild-type and mutant embryos and combined these data with a mathematical model-based computational screen to test hypotheses for gradient formation . Our analysis ruled out a BMP shuttling mechanism and a bmp transcriptionally-informed gradient mechanism . Surprisingly , rather than supporting a counter-gradient mechanism , our analyses support a fourth model , a source-sink mechanism , which relies on a restricted BMP antagonist distribution acting as a sink that drives BMP flux dorsally and gradient formation . We measured Bmp2 diffusion and found that it supports the 
Lysosomes are major sites for intracellular , acidic hydrolase-mediated proteolysis and cellular degradation . The export of low-molecular-weight catabolic end-products is facilitated by polytopic transmembrane proteins mediating secondary active or passive transport . A number of these lysosomal transporters , however , remain enigmatic . We present a detailed analysis of MFSD1 , a hitherto uncharacterized lysosomal family member of the major facilitator superfamily . MFSD1 is not N-glycosylated . It contains a dileucine-based sorting motif needed for its transport to lysosomes . Mfsd1 knockout mice develop splenomegaly and severe liver disease . Proteomics of isolated lysosomes from Mfsd1 knockout mice revealed GLMP as a critical accessory subunit for MFSD1 . MFSD1 and GLMP physically interact . GLMP is essential for the maintenance of normal levels of MFSD1 in lysosomes and vice versa . Glmp knockout mice mimic the phenotype of Mfsd1 knockout mice . Our data reveal a tightly linked 
Microtubule-based transport by the kinesin motors , powered by ATP hydrolysis , is essential for a wide range of vital processes in eukaryotes . We obtained insight into this process by developing atomic models for no-nucleotide and ATP states of the monomeric kinesin motor domain on microtubules from cryo-EM reconstructions at 5–6 Å resolution . By comparing these models with existing X-ray structures of ADP-bound kinesin , we infer a mechanistic scheme in which microtubule attachment , mediated by a universally conserved ‘linchpin’ residue in kinesin ( N255 ) , triggers a clamshell opening of the nucleotide cleft and accompanying release of ADP . Binding of ATP re-closes the cleft in a manner that tightly couples to translocation of cargo , via kinesin's ‘neck linker’ element . These structural transitions are reminiscent of the analogous nucleotide-exchange steps in the myosin and F1-ATPase motors and inform how the two heads of a kinesin dimer ‘gate’ each other to promote coordinat
Maintaining the essential functions of mitochondria requires mechanisms to recognize and remove misfolded proteins . However , quality control ( QC ) pathways for misfolded mitochondrial proteins remain poorly defined . Here , we establish temperature-sensitive ( ts- ) peripheral mitochondrial outer membrane ( MOM ) proteins as novel model QC substrates in Saccharomyces cerevisiae . The ts- proteins sen2-1HAts and sam35-2HAts are degraded from the MOM by the ubiquitin-proteasome system . Ubiquitination of sen2-1HAts is mediated by the ubiquitin ligase ( E3 ) Ubr1 , while sam35-2HAts is ubiquitinated primarily by San1 . Mitochondria-associated degradation ( MAD ) of both substrates requires the SSA family of Hsp70s and the Hsp40 Sis1 , providing the first evidence for chaperone involvement in MAD . In addition to a role for the Cdc48-Npl4-Ufd1 AAA-ATPase complex , Doa1 and a mitochondrial pool of the transmembrane Cdc48 adaptor , Ubx2 , are implicated in their degradation . This study r
Extracellular signal-regulated kinase ( ERK ) is a key effector of many growth signalling pathways . In this study , we visualise epidermal ERK activity in living mice using an ERK FRET biosensor . Under steady-state conditions , the epidermis occasionally revealed bursts of ERK activation patterns where ERK activity radially propagated from cell to cell . The frequency of this spatial propagation of radial ERK activity distribution ( SPREAD ) correlated with the rate of epidermal cell division . SPREADs and proliferation were stimulated by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate ( TPA ) in a manner dependent on EGF receptors and their cognate ligands . At the wounded skin , ERK activation propagated as trigger wave in parallel to the wound edge , suggesting that ERK activation propagation can be superimposed . Furthermore , by visualising the cell cycle , we found that SPREADs were associated with G2/M cell cycle progression . Our results provide new insights into how cell proliferation 
Circadian rhythms are biological oscillations that schedule daily changes in physiology . Outside the laboratory , circadian clocks do not generally free-run but are driven by daily cues whose timing varies with the seasons . The principles that determine how circadian clocks align to these external cycles are not well understood . Here , we report experimental platforms for driving the cyanobacterial circadian clock both in vivo and in vitro . We find that the phase of the circadian rhythm follows a simple scaling law in light-dark cycles , tracking midday across conditions with variable day length . The core biochemical oscillator comprised of the Kai proteins behaves similarly when driven by metabolic pulses in vitro , indicating that such dynamics are intrinsic to these proteins . We develop a general mathematical framework based on instantaneous transformation of the clock cycle by external cues , which successfully predicts clock behavior under many cycling environments . 
Although cardio-vascular incidents and sudden cardiac death ( SCD ) are among the leading causes of premature death in the general population , the origins remain unidentified in many cases . Genome-wide association studies have identified Meis1 as a risk factor for SCD . We report that Meis1 inactivation in the mouse neural crest leads to an altered sympatho-vagal regulation of cardiac rhythmicity in adults characterized by a chronotropic incompetence and cardiac conduction defects , thus increasing the susceptibility to SCD . We demonstrated that Meis1 is a major regulator of sympathetic target-field innervation and that Meis1 deficient sympathetic neurons die by apoptosis from early embryonic stages to perinatal stages . In addition , we showed that Meis1 regulates the transcription of key molecules necessary for the endosomal machinery . Accordingly , the traffic of Rab5+ endosomes is severely altered in Meis1-inactivated sympathetic neurons . These results suggest that Meis1 inter
Surface-attached bacterial communities called biofilms display a diversity of morphologies . Although structural and regulatory components required for biofilm formation are known , it is not understood how these essential constituents promote biofilm surface morphology . Here , using Vibrio cholerae as our model system , we combine mechanical measurements , theory and simulation , quantitative image analyses , surface energy characterizations , and mutagenesis to show that mechanical instabilities , including wrinkling and delamination , underlie the morphogenesis program of growing biofilms . We also identify interfacial energy as a key driving force for mechanomorphogenesis because it dictates the generation of new and the annihilation of existing interfaces . Finally , we discover feedback between mechanomorphogenesis and biofilm expansion , which shapes the overall biofilm contour . The morphogenesis principles that we discover in bacterial biofilms , which rely on mechanical inst
The mechanisms generating epileptic neuronal networks following insults such as severe seizures are unknown . We have previously shown that interfering with the function of the neuron-restrictive silencer factor ( NRSF/REST ) , an important transcription factor that influences neuronal phenotype , attenuated development of this disorder . In this study , we found that epilepsy-provoking seizures increased the low NRSF levels in mature hippocampus several fold yet surprisingly , provoked repression of only a subset ( ∼10% ) of potential NRSF target genes . Accordingly , the repressed gene-set was rescued when NRSF binding to chromatin was blocked . Unexpectedly , genes selectively repressed by NRSF had mid-range binding frequencies to the repressor , a property that rendered them sensitive to moderate fluctuations of NRSF levels . Genes selectively regulated by NRSF during epileptogenesis coded for ion channels , receptors , and other crucial contributors to neuronal function . Thus , d
Splitting sensory information into parallel pathways is a common strategy in sensory systems . Yet , how circuits in these parallel pathways are composed to maintain or even enhance the encoding of specific stimulus features is poorly understood . Here , we have investigated the parallel pathways formed by mitral and tufted cells of the olfactory system in mice and characterized the emergence of feature selectivity in these cell types via distinct lateral inhibitory circuits . We find differences in activity-dependent lateral inhibition between mitral and tufted cells that likely reflect newly described differences in the activation of deep and superficial granule cells . Simulations show that these circuit-level differences allow mitral and tufted cells to best discriminate odors in separate concentration ranges , indicating that segregating information about different ranges of stimulus intensity may be an important function of these parallel sensory pathways . 
The M2 muscarinic receptor is the prototypic model of allostery in GPCRs , yet the molecular and the supramolecular determinants of such effects are unknown . Monomers and oligomers of the M2 muscarinic receptor therefore have been compared to identify those allosteric properties that are gained in oligomers . Allosteric interactions were monitored by means of a FRET-based sensor of conformation at the allosteric site and in pharmacological assays involving mutants engineered to preclude intramolecular effects . Electrostatic , steric , and conformational determinants of allostery at the atomic level were examined in molecular dynamics simulations . Allosteric effects in monomers were exclusively negative and derived primarily from intramolecular electrostatic repulsion between the allosteric and orthosteric ligands . Allosteric effects in oligomers could be positive or negative , depending upon the allosteric-orthosteric pair , and they arose from interactions within and between the c
Histone modifications establish the chromatin states that coordinate the DNA damage response . In this study , we show that SETD2 , the enzyme that trimethylates histone H3 lysine 36 ( H3K36me3 ) , is required for ATM activation upon DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) . Moreover , we find that SETD2 is necessary for homologous recombination repair of DSBs by promoting the formation of RAD51 presynaptic filaments . In agreement , SETD2-mutant clear cell renal cell carcinoma ( ccRCC ) cells displayed impaired DNA damage signaling . However , despite the persistence of DNA lesions , SETD2-deficient cells failed to activate p53 , a master guardian of the genome rarely mutated in ccRCC and showed decreased cell survival after DNA damage . We propose that this novel SETD2-dependent role provides a chromatin bookmarking instrument that facilitates signaling and repair of DSBs . In ccRCC , loss of SETD2 may afford an alternative mechanism for the inactivation of the p53-mediated checkpoint with
Missense variants are a major source of human genetic variation . Here we analyze a new mouse missense variant , Rasgrp1Anaef , with an ENU-mutated EF hand in the Rasgrp1 Ras guanine nucleotide exchange factor . Rasgrp1Anaef mice exhibit anti-nuclear autoantibodies and gradually accumulate a CD44hi Helios+ PD-1+ CD4+ T cell population that is dependent on B cells . Despite reduced Rasgrp1-Ras-ERK activation in vitro , thymocyte selection in Rasgrp1Anaef is mostly normal in vivo , although CD44 is overexpressed on naïve thymocytes and T cells in a T-cell-autonomous manner . We identify CD44 expression as a sensitive reporter of tonic mTOR-S6 kinase signaling through a novel mouse strain , chino , with a reduction-of-function mutation in Mtor . Elevated tonic mTOR-S6 signaling occurs in Rasgrp1Anaef naïve CD4+ T cells . CD44 expression , CD4+ T cell subset ratios and serum autoantibodies all returned to normal in Rasgrp1AnaefMtorchino double-mutant mice , demonstrating that increased mTO
Mutations in members of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling family are common events in cancer , but the mechanisms whereby disruption of SWI/SNF components alters tumorigenesis remain poorly understood . To model the effect of loss of function mutations in the SWI/SNF subunit Arid1a in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma ( PDAC ) initiation , we directed shRNA triggered , inducible and reversible suppression of Arid1a to the mouse pancreas in the setting of oncogenic KrasG12D . Arid1a cooperates with Kras in the adult pancreas as postnatal silencing of Arid1a following sustained KrasG12D expression induces rapid and irreversible reprogramming of acinar cells into mucinous PDAC precursor lesions . In contrast , Arid1a silencing during embryogenesis , concurrent with KrasG12D activation , leads to retention of acinar cell fate . Together , our results demonstrate Arid1a as a critical modulator of Kras-dependent changes in acinar cell identity , and underscore an unanticipated influence of tim
Many species use social networks to buffer the effects of stress . The mere absence of a social network , however , may also be stressful . We examined neuroendocrine , PVN CRH neurons and report that social isolation alters the intrinsic properties of these cells in sexually dimorphic fashion . Specifically , isolating preadolescent female mice from littermates for <24 hr increased first spike latency ( FSL ) and decreased excitability of CRH neurons . These changes were not evident in age-matched males . By contrast , subjecting either males ( isolated or grouped ) or group housed females to acute physical stress ( swim ) , increased FSL . The increase in FSL following either social isolation or acute physical stress was blocked by the glucocorticoid synthesis inhibitor , metyrapone and mimicked by exogenous corticosterone . The increase in FSL results in a decrease in the excitability of CRH neurons . Our observations demonstrate that social isolation , but not acute physical stress
Hemoglobin ( Hb ) represents a model protein to study molecular adaptation in vertebrates . Although both affinity and cooperativity of oxygen binding to Hb affect tissue oxygen delivery , only the former was thought to determine molecular adaptations of Hb . Here , we suggest that Hb affinity and cooperativity reflect evolutionary and physiological adaptions that optimized tissue oxygen delivery . To test this hypothesis , we derived the relationship between the Hill coefficient and the relative affinity and conformational changes parameters of the Monod-Wymann-Changeux allosteric model and graphed the ‘biophysical Hill landscape’ describing this relation . We found that mammalian Hb cooperativity values all reside on a ridge of maximum cooperativity along this landscape that allows for both gross- and fine-tuning of tissue oxygen unloading to meet the distinct metabolic requirements of mammalian tissues for oxygen . Our findings reveal the mechanism underlying body size-related adapt
Malaria infection starts with injection of Plasmodium sporozoites by an Anopheles mosquito into the skin of the mammalian host . How sporozoites locate and enter a blood vessel is a critical , but poorly understood process . In this study , we examine sporozoite motility and their interaction with dermal blood vessels , using intravital microscopy in mice . Our data suggest that sporozoites exhibit two types of motility: in regions far from blood vessels , they exhibit ‘avascular motility’ , defined by high speed and less confinement , while in the vicinity of blood vessels their motility is more constrained . We find that curvature of sporozoite tracks engaging with vasculature optimizes contact with dermal capillaries . Imaging of sporozoites with mutations in key adhesive proteins highlight the importance of the sporozoite's gliding speed and its ability to modulate adhesive properties for successful exit from the inoculation site . 
Cells are organized by functional modules , which typically contain components whose removal severely compromises the module's function . Despite their importance , these components are not absolutely conserved between parts of the tree of life , suggesting that cells can evolve to perform the same biological functions with different proteins . We evolved Saccharomyces cerevisiae for 1000 generations without the important polarity gene BEM1 . Initially the bem1∆ lineages rapidly increase in fitness and then slowly reach >90% of the fitness of their BEM1 ancestors at the end of the evolution . Sequencing their genomes and monitoring polarization reveals a common evolutionary trajectory , with a fixed sequence of adaptive mutations , each improving cell polarization by inactivating proteins . Our results show that organisms can be evolutionarily robust to physiologically destructive perturbations and suggest that recovery by gene inactivation can lead to rapid divergence in the parts lis
Neurobiologists have studied decisions by offering successive , independent choices between goods or gambles . However , choices often have lasting consequences , as when investing in a house or choosing a partner . Here , humans decided whether to commit ( by acceptance or rejection ) to prospects that provided sustained financial return . BOLD signals in the rostral medial prefrontal cortex ( rmPFC ) encoded stimulus value only when acceptance or rejection was deferred into the future , suggesting a role in integrating value signals over time . By contrast , the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex ( dACC ) encoded stimulus value only when participants rejected ( or deferred accepting ) a prospect . dACC BOLD signals reflected two decision biases–to defer commitments to later , and to weight potential losses more heavily than gains–that ( paradoxically ) maximised reward in this task . These findings offer fresh insights into the pressures that shape economic decisions , and the computat
Paraspeckles are nuclear bodies form around the long non-coding RNA , Neat1 , and RNA-binding proteins . While their role is not fully understood , they are believed to control gene expression at a post-transcriptional level by means of the nuclear retention of mRNA containing in their 3’-UTR inverted repeats of Alu sequences ( IRAlu ) . In this study , we found that , in pituitary cells , all components of paraspeckles including four major proteins and Neat1 displayed a circadian expression pattern . Furthermore the insertion of IRAlu at the 3’-UTR of the EGFP cDNA led to a rhythmic circadian nuclear retention of the egfp mRNA that was lost when paraspeckles were disrupted whereas insertion of a single antisense Alu had only a weak effect . Using real-time video-microscopy , these IRAlu were further shown to drive a circadian expression of EGFP protein . This study shows that paraspeckles , thanks to their circadian expression , control circadian gene expression at a post-transcriptio
Presynaptic calcium channel function is critical for converting electrical information into chemical communication but the molecules in the active zone that sculpt this function are poorly understood . We show that Munc13 , an active-zone protein essential for exocytosis , also controls presynaptic voltage-gated calcium channel ( VGCC ) function dictating their behavior during various forms of activity . We demonstrate that in vitro Munc13 interacts with voltage-VGCCs via a pair of basic residues in Munc13's C2B domain . We show that elimination of this interaction by either removal of Munc13 or replacement of Munc13 with a Munc13 C2B mutant alters synaptic VGCC's response to and recovery from high-frequency action potential bursts and alters calcium influx from single action potential stimuli . These studies illustrate a novel form of synaptic modulation and show that Munc13 is poised to profoundly impact information transfer at nerve terminals by controlling both vesicle priming and 
The shape and function of plant cells are often highly interdependent . The puzzle-shaped cells that appear in the epidermis of many plants are a striking example of a complex cell shape , however their functional benefit has remained elusive . We propose that these intricate forms provide an effective strategy to reduce mechanical stress in the cell wall of the epidermis . When tissue-level growth is isotropic , we hypothesize that lobes emerge at the cellular level to prevent formation of large isodiametric cells that would bulge under the stress produced by turgor pressure . Data from various plant organs and species support the relationship between lobes and growth isotropy , which we test with mutants where growth direction is perturbed . Using simulation models we show that a mechanism actively regulating cellular stress plausibly reproduces the development of epidermal cell shape . Together , our results suggest that mechanical stress is a key driver of cell-shape morphogenesis 
Most human genes contain multiple introns , necessitating mechanisms to effectively define exons and ensure their proper connection by spliceosomes . Human spliceosome assembly involves both cross-intron and cross-exon interactions , but how these work together is unclear . We examined in human nuclear extracts dynamic interactions of single pre-mRNA molecules with individual fluorescently tagged spliceosomal subcomplexes to investigate how cross-intron and cross-exon processes jointly promote pre-spliceosome assembly . U1 subcomplex bound to the 5' splice site of an intron acts jointly with U1 bound to the 5' splice site of the next intron to dramatically increase the rate and efficiency by which U2 subcomplex is recruited to the branch site/3' splice site of the upstream intron . The flanking 5' splice sites have greater than additive effects implying distinct mechanisms facilitating U2 recruitment . This synergy of 5' splice sites across introns and exons is likely important in prom
Many membrane proteins fold inefficiently and require the help of enzymes and chaperones . Here we reveal a novel folding assistance system that operates on membrane proteins from the cytosolic side of the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) . We show that folding of the Wnt signaling coreceptor LRP6 is promoted by ubiquitination of a specific lysine , retaining it in the ER while avoiding degradation . Subsequent ER exit requires removal of ubiquitin from this lysine by the deubiquitinating enzyme USP19 . This ubiquitination-deubiquitination is conceptually reminiscent of the glucosylation-deglucosylation occurring in the ER lumen during the calnexin/calreticulin folding cycle . To avoid infinite futile cycles , folded LRP6 molecules undergo palmitoylation and ER export , while unsuccessfully folded proteins are , with time , polyubiquitinated on other lysines and targeted to degradation . This ubiquitin-dependent folding system also controls the proteostasis of other membrane proteins as CF
Sex-based modulation of cognitive processes could set the stage for individual differences in vulnerability to neuropsychiatric disorders . While value-based decision making processes in particular have been proposed to be influenced by sex differences , the overall correct performance in decision making tasks often show variable or minimal differences across sexes . Computational tools allow us to uncover latent variables that define different decision making approaches , even in animals with similar correct performance . Here , we quantify sex differences in mice in the latent variables underlying behavior in a classic value-based decision making task: a restless two-armed bandit . While male and female mice had similar accuracy , they achieved this performance via different patterns of exploration . Male mice tended to make more exploratory choices overall , largely because they appeared to get ‘stuck’ in exploration once they had started . Female mice tended to explore less but lea
In endoplasmic reticulum-associated protein degradation ( ERAD ) , membrane proteins are ubiquitinated , extracted from the membrane , and degraded by the proteasome . The cytosolic ATPase Cdc48 drives extraction by pulling on polyubiquitinated substrates . How hydrophobic transmembrane ( TM ) segments are moved from the phospholipid bilayer into cytosol , often together with hydrophilic and folded ER luminal protein parts , is not known . Using a reconstituted system with purified proteins from Saccharomyces cerevisiae , we show that the ubiquitin ligase Doa10 ( Teb-4/MARCH6 in animals ) is a retrotranslocase that facilitates membrane protein extraction . A substrate’s TM segment interacts with the membrane-embedded domain of Doa10 and then passively moves into the aqueous phase . Luminal substrate segments cross the membrane in an unfolded state . Their unfolding occurs on the luminal side of the membrane by cytoplasmic Cdc48 action . Our results reveal how a membrane-bound retrotran
Extracellular Hedgehog ( Hh ) proteins induce transcriptional changes in target cells by inhibiting the proteolytic processing of full-length Drosophila Ci or mammalian Gli proteins to nuclear transcriptional repressors and by activating the full-length Ci or Gli proteins . We used Ci variants expressed at physiological levels to investigate the contributions of these mechanisms to dose-dependent Hh signaling in Drosophila wing imaginal discs . Ci variants that cannot be processed supported a normal pattern of graded target gene activation and the development of adults with normal wing morphology , when supplemented by constitutive Ci repressor , showing that Hh can signal normally in the absence of regulated processing . The processing-resistant Ci variants were also significantly activated in the absence of Hh by elimination of Cos2 , likely acting through binding the CORD domain of Ci , or PKA , revealing separate inhibitory roles of these two components in addition to their well-es
Nociceptive information is relayed through the spinal cord dorsal horn , a critical area in sensory processing . The neuronal circuits in this region that underpin sensory perception must be clarified to better understand how dysfunction can lead to pathological pain . This study used an optogenetic approach to selectively activate spinal interneurons that express the calcium-binding protein calretinin ( CR ) . We show that these interneurons form an interconnected network that can initiate and sustain enhanced excitatory signaling , and directly relay signals to lamina I projection neurons . Photoactivation of CR interneurons in vivo resulted in a significant nocifensive behavior that was morphine sensitive , caused a conditioned place aversion , and was enhanced by spared nerve injury . Furthermore , halorhodopsin-mediated inhibition of these interneurons elevated sensory thresholds . Our results suggest that dorsal horn circuits that involve excitatory CR neurons are important for t
Mutations in the gene encoding Ras-associated binding protein 23 ( RAB23 ) cause Carpenter Syndrome , which is characterized by multiple developmental abnormalities including polysyndactyly and defects in skull morphogenesis . To understand how RAB23 regulates skull development , we generated Rab23-deficient mice that survive to an age where skeletal development can be studied . Along with polysyndactyly , these mice exhibit premature fusion of multiple sutures resultant from aberrant osteoprogenitor proliferation and elevated osteogenesis in the suture . FGF10-driven FGFR1 signaling is elevated in Rab23-/-sutures with a consequent imbalance in MAPK , Hedgehog signaling and RUNX2 expression . Inhibition of elevated pERK1/2 signaling results in the normalization of osteoprogenitor proliferation with a concomitant reduction of osteogenic gene expression , and prevention of craniosynostosis . Our results suggest a novel role for RAB23 as an upstream negative regulator of both FGFR and can
Inheritance of gene expression states is fundamental for cells to ‘remember’ past events , such as environmental or developmental cues . The conserved Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 ( PRC2 ) maintains epigenetic repression of many genes in animals and plants and modifies chromatin at its targets . Histones modified by PRC2 can be inherited through cell division . However , it remains unclear whether this inheritance can direct long-term memory of individual gene expression states ( cis memory ) or instead if local chromatin states are dictated by the concentrations of diffusible factors ( trans memory ) . By monitoring the expression of two copies of the Arabidopsis Polycomb target gene FLOWERING LOCUS C ( FLC ) in the same plants , we show that one copy can be repressed while the other is active . Furthermore , this ‘mixed’ expression state is inherited through many cell divisions as plants develop . These data demonstrate that epigenetic memory of FLC expression is stored not in trans
DnaK/Hsp70 chaperones form oligomers of poorly understood structure and functional significance . Site-specific proteolysis and crosslinking were used to probe the architecture of oligomers formed by the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) Hsp70 , BiP . These were found to consist of adjacent protomers engaging the interdomain linker of one molecule in the substrate binding site of another , attenuating the chaperone function of oligomeric BiP . Native gel electrophoresis revealed a rapidly-modulated reciprocal relationship between the burden of unfolded proteins and BiP oligomers and slower equilibration between oligomers and inactive , covalently-modified BiP . Lumenal ER calcium depletion caused rapid oligomerization of mammalian BiP and a coincidental diminution in substrate binding , pointing to the relative inertness of the oligomers . Thus , equilibration between inactive oligomers and active monomeric BiP is poised to buffer fluctuations in ER unfolded protein load on a rapid timescal
Flexible filamentous viruses include economically important plant pathogens . Their viral particles contain several hundred copies of a helically arrayed coat protein ( CP ) protecting a ( + ) ssRNA . We describe here a structure at 3 . 9 Å resolution , from electron cryomicroscopy , of Pepino mosaic virus ( PepMV ) , a representative of the genus Potexvirus ( family Alphaflexiviridae ) . Our results allow modeling of the CP and its interactions with viral RNA . The overall fold of PepMV CP resembles that of nucleoproteins ( NPs ) from the genus Phlebovirus ( family Bunyaviridae ) , a group of enveloped ( - ) ssRNA viruses . The main difference between potexvirus CP and phlebovirus NP is in their C-terminal extensions , which appear to determine the characteristics of the distinct multimeric assemblies – a flexuous , helical rod or a loose ribonucleoprotein . The homology suggests gene transfer between eukaryotic ( + ) and ( - ) ssRNA viruses . 
Antibody binding to cell surface proteins plays a crucial role in immunity , and the location of an epitope can altogether determine the immunological outcome of a host-target interaction . Techniques available today for epitope identification are costly , time-consuming , and unsuited for high-throughput analysis . Fast and efficient screening of epitope location can be useful for the development of therapeutic monoclonal antibodies and vaccines . Cellular morphology typically varies , and antibodies often bind heterogeneously across a cell surface , making traditional particle-averaging strategies challenging for accurate native antibody localization . In the present work , we have developed a method , SiteLoc , for imaging-based molecular localization on cellular surface proteins . Nanometer-scale resolution is achieved through localization in one dimension , namely , the distance from a bound ligand to a reference surface . This is done by using topological image averaging . Our re
Systemic vascular pressure in vertebrates is regulated by a range of factors: one key element of control is peripheral resistance in tissue capillary beds . Many aspects of the relationship between central control of vascular flow and peripheral resistance are unclear . An important example of this is the relationship between hypoxic response in individual tissues , and the effect that response has on systemic cardiovascular adaptation to oxygen deprivation . We show here how hypoxic response via the HIF transcription factors in one large vascular bed , that underlying the skin , influences cardiovascular response to hypoxia in mice . We show that the response of the skin to hypoxia feeds back on a wide range of cardiovascular parameters , including heart rate , arterial pressures , and body temperature . These data represent the first demonstration of a dynamic role for oxygen sensing in a peripheral tissue directly modifying cardiovascular response to the challenge of hypoxia . 
We describe refinements in optogenetic methods for circuit mapping that enable measurements of functional synaptic connectivity with single-neuron resolution . By expanding a two-photon beam in the imaging plane using the temporal focusing method and restricting channelrhodopsin to the soma and proximal dendrites , we are able to reliably evoke action potentials in individual neurons , verify spike generation with GCaMP6s , and determine the presence or absence of synaptic connections with patch-clamp electrophysiological recording . 
The mode of interaction of transcription factors ( TFs ) on eukaryotic genomes remains a matter of debate . Single-molecule data in living cells for the TFs Sox2 and Oct4 were previously interpreted as evidence of ordered assembly on DNA . However , the quantity that was calculated does not determine binding order but , rather , energy expenditure away from thermodynamic equilibrium . Here , we undertake a rigorous biophysical analysis which leads to the concept of reciprocity . The single-molecule data imply that Sox2 and Oct4 exhibit negative reciprocity , with expression of Sox2 increasing Oct4’s genomic binding but expression of Oct4 decreasing Sox2’s binding . Models show that negative reciprocity can arise either from energy expenditure or from a mixture of positive and negative cooperativity at distinct genomic loci . Both possibilities imply unexpected complexity in how TFs interact on DNA , for which single-molecule methods provide novel detection capabilities . 
Detecting pathogens and mounting immune responses upon infection is crucial for animal health . However , these responses come at a high metabolic price ( McKean and Lazzaro , 2011 , Kominsky et al . , 2010 ) , and avoiding pathogens before infection may be advantageous . The bacterial endotoxins lipopolysaccharides ( LPS ) are important immune system infection cues ( Abbas et al . , 2014 ) , but it remains unknown whether animals possess sensory mechanisms to detect them prior to infection . Here we show that Drosophila melanogaster display strong aversive responses to LPS and that gustatory neurons expressing Gr66a bitter receptors mediate avoidance of LPS in feeding and egg laying assays . We found the expression of the chemosensory cation channel dTRPA1 in these cells to be necessary and sufficient for LPS avoidance . Furthermore , LPS stimulates Drosophila neurons in a TRPA1-dependent manner and activates exogenous dTRPA1 channels in human cells . Our findings demonstrate that fli
The generation of naïve T lymphocytes is critical for immune function yet the mechanisms governing their maturation remain incompletely understood . We have identified a mouse mutant , bloto , that harbors a hypomorphic mutation in the zinc finger protein Zfp335 . Zfp335bloto/bloto mice exhibit a naïve T cell deficiency due to an intrinsic developmental defect that begins to manifest in the thymus and continues into the periphery , affecting T cells that have recently undergone thymic egress . The effects of Zfp335bloto are multigenic and cannot be attributed to altered thymic selection , proliferation or Bcl2-dependent survival . Zfp335 binds to promoter regions via a consensus motif , and its target genes are enriched in categories related to protein metabolism , mitochondrial function , and transcriptional regulation . Restoring the expression of one target , Ankle2 , partially rescues T cell maturation . These findings identify Zfp335 as a transcription factor and essential regulat
A critical assumption of gene expression analysis is that mRNA abundances broadly correlate with protein abundance , but these two are often imperfectly correlated . Some of the discrepancy can be accounted for by two important mRNA features: codon usage and mRNA secondary structure . We present a new global factor , called mRNA:ncRNA avoidance , and provide evidence that avoidance increases translational efficiency . We also demonstrate a strong selection for the avoidance of stochastic mRNA:ncRNA interactions across prokaryotes , and that these have a greater impact on protein abundance than mRNA structure or codon usage . By generating synonymously variant green fluorescent protein ( GFP ) mRNAs with different potential for mRNA:ncRNA interactions , we demonstrate that GFP levels correlate well with interaction avoidance . Therefore , taking stochastic mRNA:ncRNA interactions into account enables precise modulation of protein abundance . 
Despite being an early event in ALS , it remains unclear whether the denervation of neuromuscular junctions ( NMJ ) is simply the first manifestation of a globally degenerating motor neuron . Using in vivo imaging of single axons and their NMJs over a three-month period , we identify that single motor-units are dismantled asynchronously in SOD1G37R mice . We reveal that weeks prior to complete axonal degeneration , the dismantling of axonal branches is accompanied by contemporaneous new axonal sprouting resulting in synapse formation onto nearby NMJs . Denervation events tend to propagate from the first lost NMJ , consistent with a contribution of neuromuscular factors extrinsic to motor neurons , with distal branches being more susceptible . These results show that NMJ denervation in ALS is a complex and dynamic process of continuous denervation and new innervation rather than a manifestation of sudden global motor neuron degeneration . 
Adjuvant tamoxifen therapy improves survival in breast cancer patients . Unfortunately , long-term treatment comes with side effects that impact health and quality of life , including hot flashes , changes in bone density , and fatigue . Partly due to a lack of proven animal models , the tissues and cells that mediate these negative side effects are unclear . Here , we show that mice undergoing tamoxifen treatment experience changes in temperature , bone , and movement . Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals that tamoxifen treatment induces widespread gene expression changes in the hypothalamus and preoptic area ( hypothalamus-POA ) . These expression changes are dependent on estrogen receptor alpha ( ERα ) , as conditional knockout of ERα in the hypothalamus-POA ablates or reverses tamoxifen-induced gene expression . Accordingly , ERα-deficient mice do not exhibit tamoxifen-induced changes in temperature , bone , or movement . These findings provide mechanistic insight into the effects o
ISG15 is an interferon-stimulated , linear di-ubiquitin-like protein , with anti-viral activity . The role of ISG15 during bacterial infection remains elusive . We show that ISG15 expression in nonphagocytic cells is dramatically induced upon Listeria infection . Surprisingly this induction can be type I interferon independent and depends on the cytosolic surveillance pathway , which senses bacterial DNA and signals through STING , TBK1 , IRF3 and IRF7 . Most importantly , we observed that ISG15 expression restricts Listeria infection in vitro and in vivo . We made use of stable isotope labeling in tissue culture ( SILAC ) to identify ISGylated proteins that could be responsible for the protective effect . Strikingly , infection or overexpression of ISG15 leads to ISGylation of ER and Golgi proteins , which correlates with increased secretion of cytokines known to counteract infection . Together , our data reveal a previously uncharacterized ISG15-dependent restriction of Listeria infe
Single-molecule Förster Resonance energy transfer ( smFRET ) is an adaptable method for studying the structure and dynamics of biomolecules . The development of high throughput methodologies and the growth of commercial instrumentation have outpaced the development of rapid , standardized , and automated methodologies to objectively analyze the wealth of produced data . Here we present DeepFRET , an automated , open-source standalone solution based on deep learning , where the only crucial human intervention in transiting from raw microscope images to histograms of biomolecule behavior , is a user-adjustable quality threshold . Integrating standard features of smFRET analysis , DeepFRET consequently outputs the common kinetic information metrics . Its classification accuracy on ground truth data reached >95% outperforming human operators and commonly used threshold , only requiring ~1% of the time . Its precise and rapid operation on real data demonstrates DeepFRET’s capacity to object
Polycomb repressive complex-1 ( PRC1 ) is essential for the epigenetic regulation of gene expression . SCML2 is a mammalian homolog of Drosophila SCM , a Polycomb-group protein that associates with PRC1 . In this study , we show that SCML2A , an SCML2 isoform tightly associated to chromatin , contributes to PRC1 localization and also directly enforces repression of certain Polycomb target genes . SCML2A binds to PRC1 via its SPM domain and interacts with ncRNAs through a novel RNA-binding region ( RBR ) . Targeting of SCML2A to chromatin involves the coordinated action of the MBT domains , RNA binding , and interaction with PRC1 through the SPM domain . Deletion of the RBR reduces the occupancy of SCML2A at target genes and overexpression of a mutant SCML2A lacking the RBR causes defects in PRC1 recruitment . These observations point to a role for ncRNAs in regulating SCML2 function and suggest that SCML2 participates in the epigenetic control of transcription directly and in cooperati
Regulation of translating ribosomes is a major component of gene expression control network . In Escherichia coli , ribosome stalling by the C-terminal arrest sequence of SecM regulates the SecA-dependent secretion pathway . Previous studies reported many residues of SecM peptide and ribosome exit tunnel are critical for stalling . However , the underlying molecular mechanism is still not clear at the atomic level . Here , we present two cryo-EM structures of the SecM-stalled ribosomes at 3 . 3–3 . 7 Å resolution , which reveal two different stalling mechanisms at distinct elongation steps of the translation cycle: one is due to the inactivation of ribosomal peptidyl-transferase center which inhibits peptide bond formation with the incoming prolyl-tRNA; the other is the prolonged residence of the peptidyl-RNA at the hybrid A/P site which inhibits the full-scale tRNA translocation . These results demonstrate an elegant control of translation cycle by regulatory peptides through a contin
We provide the first measures of foveal cone density as a function of axial length in living eyes and discuss the physical and visual implications of our findings . We used a new generation Adaptive Optics Scanning Laser Ophthalmoscope to image cones at and near the fovea in 28 eyes of 16 subjects . Cone density and other metrics were computed in units of visual angle and linear retinal units . The foveal cone mosaic in longer eyes is expanded at the fovea , but not in proportion to eye length . Despite retinal stretching ( decrease in cones/mm2 ) , myopes generally have a higher angular sampling density ( increase in cones/deg2 ) in and around the fovea compared to emmetropes , offering the potential for better visual acuity . Reports of deficits in best-corrected foveal vision in myopes compared to emmetropes cannot be explained by increased spacing between photoreceptors caused by retinal stretching during myopic progression . 
Streptococcus pneumoniae is a leading cause of invasive disease in infants , especially in low-income settings . Asymptomatic carriage in the nasopharynx is a prerequisite for disease , but variability in its duration is currently only understood at the serotype level . Here we developed a model to calculate the duration of carriage episodes from longitudinal swab data , and combined these results with whole genome sequence data . We estimated that pneumococcal genomic variation accounted for 63% of the phenotype variation , whereas the host traits considered here ( age and previous carriage ) accounted for less than 5% . We further partitioned this heritability into both lineage and locus effects , and quantified the amount attributable to the largest sources of variation in carriage duration: serotype ( 17% ) , drug-resistance ( 9% ) and other significant locus effects ( 7% ) . A pan-genome-wide association study identified prophage sequences as being associated with decreased carria
Cardiac repolarization is determined in part by the slow delayed rectifier current ( IKs ) , through the tetrameric voltage-gated ion channel , KCNQ1 , and its β-subunit , KCNE1 . The stoichiometry between α and β-subunits has been controversial with studies reporting either a strict 2 KCNE1:4 KCNQ1 or a variable ratio up to 4:4 . We used IKs fusion proteins linking KCNE1 to one ( EQ ) , two ( EQQ ) or four ( EQQQQ ) KCNQ1 subunits , to reproduce compulsory 4:4 , 2:4 or 1:4 stoichiometries . Whole cell and single-channel recordings showed EQQ and EQQQQ to have increasingly hyperpolarized activation , reduced conductance , and shorter first latency of opening compared to EQ - all abolished by the addition of KCNE1 . As well , using a UV-crosslinking unnatural amino acid in KCNE1 , we found EQQQQ and EQQ crosslinking rates to be progressively slowed compared to KCNQ1 , which demonstrates that no intrinsic mechanism limits the association of up to four β-subunits within the IKs complex . 
Cellular responses to injury are crucial for complete tissue regeneration , but their underlying processes remain incompletely elucidated . We have previously reported that myeloid-defective zebrafish mutants display apoptosis of regenerative cells during fin fold regeneration . Here , we found that the apoptosis phenotype is induced by prolonged expression of interleukin 1 beta ( il1b ) . Myeloid cells are considered to be the principal source of Il1b , but we show that epithelial cells express il1b in response to tissue injury and initiate the inflammatory response , and that its resolution by macrophages is necessary for survival of regenerative cells . We further show that Il1b plays an essential role in normal fin fold regeneration by regulating expression of regeneration-induced genes . Our study reveals that proper levels of Il1b signaling and tissue inflammation , which are tuned by macrophages , play a crucial role in tissue regeneration . 
Much of the molecular motion in the cytoplasm is diffusive , which possibly limits the tempo of processes . We studied the dependence of protein mobility on protein surface properties and ionic strength . We used surface-modified fluorescent proteins ( FPs ) and determined their translational diffusion coefficients ( D ) in the cytoplasm of Escherichia coli , Lactococcus lactis and Haloferax volcanii . We find that in E . coli D depends on the net charge and its distribution over the protein , with positive proteins diffusing up to 100-fold slower than negative ones . This effect is weaker in L . lactis and Hfx . volcanii due to electrostatic screening . The decrease in mobility is probably caused by interaction of positive FPs with ribosomes as shown in in vivo diffusion measurements and confirmed in vitro with purified ribosomes . Ribosome surface properties may thus limit the composition of the cytoplasmic proteome . This finding lays bare a paradox in the functioning of prokaryotic
Regeneration is widespread , but mechanisms that activate regeneration remain mysterious . Planarians are capable of whole-body regeneration and mount distinct molecular responses to wounds that result in tissue absence and those that do not . A major question is how these distinct responses are activated . We describe a follistatin homolog ( Smed-follistatin ) required for planarian regeneration . Smed-follistatin inhibition blocks responses to tissue absence but does not prevent normal tissue turnover . Two activin homologs ( Smed-activin-1 and Smed-activin-2 ) are required for the Smed-follistatin phenotype . Finally , Smed-follistatin is wound-induced and expressed at higher levels following injuries that cause tissue absence . These data suggest that Smed-follistatin inhibits Smed-Activin proteins to trigger regeneration specifically following injuries involving tissue absence and identify a mechanism critical for regeneration initiation , a process important across the animal kin
DNA replication errors that persist as mismatch mutations make up the molecular fingerprint of mismatch repair ( MMR ) -deficient tumors and convey them with resistance to standard therapy . Using whole-genome and whole-exome sequencing , we here confirm an MMR-deficient mutation signature that is distinct from other tumor genomes , but surprisingly similar to germ-line DNA , indicating that a substantial fraction of human genetic variation arises through mutations escaping MMR . Moreover , we identify a large set of recurrent indels that may serve to detect microsatellite instability ( MSI ) . Indeed , using endometrial tumors with immunohistochemically proven MMR deficiency , we optimize a novel marker set capable of detecting MSI and show it to have greater specificity and selectivity than standard MSI tests . Additionally , we show that recurrent indels are enriched for the ‘DNA double-strand break repair by homologous recombination’ pathway . Consequently , DSB repair is reduced i
Light-inducible dimerization protein modules enable precise temporal and spatial control of biological processes in non-invasive fashion . Among them , Magnets are small modules engineered from the Neurospora crassa photoreceptor Vivid by orthogonalizing the homodimerization interface into complementary heterodimers . Both Magnets components , which are well-tolerated as protein fusion partners , are photoreceptors requiring simultaneous photoactivation to interact , enabling high spatiotemporal confinement of dimerization with a single excitation wavelength . However , Magnets require concatemerization for efficient responses and cell preincubation at 28°C to be functional . Here we overcome these limitations by engineering an optimized Magnets pair requiring neither concatemerization nor low temperature preincubation . We validated these ‘enhanced’ Magnets ( eMags ) by using them to rapidly and reversibly recruit proteins to subcellular organelles , to induce organelle contacts , and
Ribosome stalling during translation has recently been shown to cause neurodegeneration , yet the signaling pathways triggered by stalled elongation complexes are unknown . To investigate these pathways we analyzed the brain of C57BL/6J-Gtpbp2nmf205-/- mice in which neuronal elongation complexes are stalled at AGA codons due to deficiencies in a tRNAArgUCU tRNA and GTPBP2 , a mammalian ribosome rescue factor . Increased levels of phosphorylation of eIF2α ( Ser51 ) were detected prior to neurodegeneration in these mice and transcriptome analysis demonstrated activation of ATF4 , a key transcription factor in the integrated stress response ( ISR ) pathway . Genetic experiments showed that this pathway was activated by the eIF2α kinase , GCN2 , in an apparent deacylated tRNA-independent fashion . Further we found that the ISR attenuates neurodegeneration in C57BL/6J-Gtpbp2nmf205-/- mice , underscoring the importance of cellular and stress context on the outcome of activation of this pathw
Being taller is associated with enhanced longevity , and higher education and earnings . We reanalysed 1472 population-based studies , with measurement of height on more than 18 . 6 million participants to estimate mean height for people born between 1896 and 1996 in 200 countries . The largest gain in adult height over the past century has occurred in South Korean women and Iranian men , who became 20 . 2 cm ( 95% credible interval 17 . 5–22 . 7 ) and 16 . 5 cm ( 13 . 3–19 . 7 ) taller , respectively . In contrast , there was little change in adult height in some sub-Saharan African countries and in South Asia over the century of analysis . The tallest people over these 100 years are men born in the Netherlands in the last quarter of 20th century , whose average heights surpassed 182 . 5 cm , and the shortest were women born in Guatemala in 1896 ( 140 . 3 cm; 135 . 8–144 . 8 ) . The height differential between the tallest and shortest populations was 19-20 cm a century ago , and has r
The rates of opioid overdose in the United States quadrupled between 1999 and 2017 , reaching a staggering 130 deaths per day . This health epidemic demands innovative solutions that require uncovering the key brain areas and cell types mediating the cause of overdose— opioid-induced respiratory depression . Here , we identify two primary changes to murine breathing after administering opioids . These changes implicate the brainstem’s breathing circuitry which we confirm by locally eliminating the µ-Opioid receptor . We find the critical brain site is the preBötzinger Complex , where the breathing rhythm originates , and use genetic tools to reveal that just 70–140 neurons in this region are responsible for its sensitivity to opioids . Future characterization of these neurons may lead to novel therapies that prevent respiratory depression while sparing analgesia . 
Human hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) infection and HBV-related diseases remain a major public health problem . Individuals coinfected with its satellite hepatitis D virus ( HDV ) have more severe disease . Cellular entry of both viruses is mediated by HBV envelope proteins . The pre-S1 domain of the large envelope protein is a key determinant for receptor ( s ) binding . However , the identity of the receptor ( s ) is unknown . Here , by using near zero distance photo-cross-linking and tandem affinity purification , we revealed that the receptor-binding region of pre-S1 specifically interacts with sodium taurocholate cotransporting polypeptide ( NTCP ) , a multiple transmembrane transporter predominantly expressed in the liver . Silencing NTCP inhibited HBV and HDV infection , while exogenous NTCP expression rendered nonsusceptible hepatocarcinoma cells susceptible to these viral infections . Moreover , replacing amino acids 157–165 of nonfunctional monkey NTCP with the human counterpart co
The global health burden due to sepsis and the associated cytokine storm is substantial . While early intervention has improved survival during the cytokine storm , those that survive can enter a state of chronic immunoparalysis defined by transient lymphopenia and functional deficits of surviving cells . Memory CD8 T cells provide rapid cytolysis and cytokine production following re-encounter with their cognate antigen to promote long-term immunity , and CD8 T cell impairment due to sepsis can pre-dispose individuals to re-infection . While the acute influence of sepsis on memory CD8 T cells has been characterized , if and to what extent pre-existing memory CD8 T cells recover remains unknown . Here , we observed that central memory CD8 T cells ( TCM ) from septic patients proliferate more than those from healthy individuals . Utilizing LCMV immune mice and a CLP model to induce sepsis , we demonstrated that TCM proliferation is associated with numerical recovery of pathogen-specific 
Long INterspersed Element-1 ( LINE-1 or L1 ) retrotransposition poses a mutagenic threat to human genomes . Human cells have therefore evolved strategies to regulate L1 retrotransposition . The APOBEC3 ( A3 ) gene family consists of seven enzymes that catalyze deamination of cytidine nucleotides to uridine nucleotides ( C-to-U ) in single-strand DNA substrates . Among these enzymes , APOBEC3A ( A3A ) is the most potent inhibitor of L1 retrotransposition in cultured cell assays . However , previous characterization of L1 retrotransposition events generated in the presence of A3A did not yield evidence of deamination . Thus , the molecular mechanism by which A3A inhibits L1 retrotransposition has remained enigmatic . Here , we have used in vitro and in vivo assays to demonstrate that A3A can inhibit L1 retrotransposition by deaminating transiently exposed single-strand DNA that arises during the process of L1 integration . These data provide a mechanistic explanation of how the A3A cytid
Sensory experience plays an important role in shaping neural circuitry by affecting the synaptic connectivity and intrinsic properties of individual neurons . Identifying the molecular players responsible for converting external stimuli into altered neuronal output remains a crucial step in understanding experience-dependent plasticity and circuit function . Here , we investigate the role of the activity-regulated , non-canonical Ras-like GTPase Rem2 in visual circuit plasticity . We demonstrate that Rem2-/- mice fail to exhibit normal ocular dominance plasticity during the critical period . At the cellular level , our data establish a cell-autonomous role for Rem2 in regulating intrinsic excitability of layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons , prior to changes in synaptic function . Consistent with these findings , both in vitro and in vivo recordings reveal increased spontaneous firing rates in the absence of Rem2 . Taken together , our data demonstrate that Rem2 is a key molecule that regulate
This is an analysis of how magnetic fields affect biological molecules and cells . It was prompted by a series of prominent reports regarding magnetism in biological systems . The first claims to have identified a protein complex that acts like a compass needle to guide magnetic orientation in animals ( Qin et al . , 2016 ) . Two other articles report magnetic control of membrane conductance by attaching ferritin to an ion channel protein and then tugging the ferritin or heating it with a magnetic field ( Stanley et al . , 2015; Wheeler et al . , 2016 ) . Here I argue that these claims conflict with basic laws of physics . The discrepancies are large: from 5 to 10 log units . If the reported phenomena do in fact occur , they must have causes entirely different from the ones proposed by the authors . The paramagnetic nature of protein complexes is found to seriously limit their utility for engineering magnetically sensitive cells . 
Stem cells can self-renew , differentiate , or enter quiescence . Understanding how stem cells switch between these states is highly relevant for stem cell-based therapeutics . Drosophila neural progenitors ( neuroblasts ) have been an excellent model for studying self-renewal and differentiation , but quiescence remains poorly understood . In this study , we show that when neuroblasts enter quiescence , the differentiation factor Prospero is transiently detected in the neuroblast nucleus , followed by the establishment of a unique molecular profile lacking most progenitor and differentiation markers . The pulse of low level nuclear Prospero precedes entry into neuroblast quiescence even when the timing of quiescence is advanced or delayed by changing temporal identity factors . Furthermore , loss of Prospero prevents entry into quiescence , whereas a pulse of low level nuclear Prospero can drive proliferating larval neuroblasts into quiescence . We propose that Prospero levels disting
Uncoating of the metastable HIV-1 capsid is a tightly regulated disassembly process required for release of the viral cDNA prior to nuclear import . To understand the intrinsic capsid disassembly pathway and how it can be modulated , we have developed a single-particle fluorescence microscopy method to follow the real-time uncoating kinetics of authentic HIV capsids in vitro immediately after permeabilizing the viral membrane . Opening of the first defect in the lattice is the rate-limiting step of uncoating , which is followed by rapid , catastrophic collapse . The capsid-binding inhibitor PF74 accelerates capsid opening but stabilizes the remaining lattice . In contrast , binding of a polyanion to a conserved arginine cluster in the lattice strongly delays initiation of uncoating but does not prevent subsequent lattice disassembly . Our observations suggest that different stages of uncoating can be controlled independently with the interplay between different capsid-binding regulator
Breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed malignancy in women . Analysis of breast cancer genomic DNA indicates frequent loss-of-function mutations in components of the cJUN NH2-terminal kinase ( JNK ) signaling pathway . Since JNK signaling can promote cell proliferation by activating the AP1 transcription factor , this apparent association of reduced JNK signaling with tumor development was unexpected . We examined the effect of JNK deficiency in the murine breast epithelium . Loss of JNK signaling caused genomic instability and the development of breast cancer . Moreover , JNK deficiency caused widespread early neoplasia and rapid tumor formation in a murine model of breast cancer . This tumor suppressive function was not mediated by a role of JNK in the growth of established tumors , but by a requirement of JNK to prevent tumor initiation . Together , these data identify JNK pathway defects as ‘driver’ mutations that promote genome instability and tumor initiation . 
The pathways controlling cilium biogenesis in different cell types have not been fully elucidated . We recently identified peptidylglycine α-amidating monooxygenase ( PAM ) , an enzyme required for generating amidated bioactive signaling peptides , in Chlamydomonas and mammalian cilia . Here , we show that PAM is required for the normal assembly of motile and primary cilia in Chlamydomonas , planaria and mice . Chlamydomonas PAM knockdown lines failed to assemble cilia beyond the transition zone , had abnormal Golgi architecture and altered levels of cilia assembly components . Decreased PAM gene expression reduced motile ciliary density on the ventral surface of planaria and resulted in the appearance of cytosolic axonemes lacking a ciliary membrane . The architecture of primary cilia on neuroepithelial cells in Pam-/- mouse embryos was also aberrant . Our data suggest that PAM activity and alterations in post-Golgi trafficking contribute to the observed ciliogenesis defects and provi
Class III myosins ( Myo3 ) and actin-bundling protein Espin play critical roles in regulating the development and maintenance of stereocilia in vertebrate hair cells , and their defects cause hereditary hearing impairments . Myo3 interacts with Espin1 through its tail homology I motif ( THDI ) , however it is not clear how Myo3 specifically acts through Espin1 to regulate the actin bundle assembly and stabilization . Here we discover that Myo3 THDI contains a pair of repeat sequences capable of independently and strongly binding to the ankyrin repeats of Espin1 , revealing an unexpected Myo3-mediated cross-linking mechanism of Espin1 . The structures of Myo3 in complex with Espin1 not only elucidate the mechanism of the binding , but also reveal a Myo3-induced release of Espin1 auto-inhibition mechanism . We also provide evidence that Myo3-mediated cross-linking can further promote actin fiber bundling activity of Espin1 . 
Voltage-gated calcium channels control key functions of excitable cells , like synaptic transmission in neurons and the contraction of heart and skeletal muscles . To accomplish such diverse functions , different calcium channels activate at different voltages and with distinct kinetics . To identify the molecular mechanisms governing specific voltage sensing properties , we combined structure modeling , mutagenesis , and electrophysiology to analyze the structures , free energy , and transition kinetics of the activated and resting states of two functionally distinct voltage sensing domains ( VSDs ) of the eukaryotic calcium channel CaV1 . 1 . Both VSDs displayed the typical features of the sliding helix model; however , they greatly differed in ion-pair formation of the outer gating charges . Specifically , stabilization of the activated state enhanced the voltage dependence of activation , while stabilization of resting states slowed the kinetics . This mechanism provides a mechanis
The ability of the adult brain to undergo plastic changes is of particular interest in medicine , especially regarding recovery from injuries or improving learning and cognition . Matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) have been associated with juvenile experience-dependent primary visual cortex ( V1 ) plasticity , yet little is known about their role in this process in the adult V1 . Activation of MMPs is a crucial step facilitating structural changes in a healthy brain; however , upon brain injury , upregulated MMPs promote the spread of a lesion and impair recovery . To clarify these seemingly opposing outcomes of MMP-activation , we examined the effects of MMP-inhibition on experience-induced plasticity in healthy and stoke-affected adult mice . In healthy animals , 7-day application of MMP-inhibitor prevented visual plasticity . Additionally , treatment with MMP-inhibitor once but not twice following stroke rescued plasticity , normally lost under these conditions . Our data imply tha
Signal transduction at vertebrate excitatory synapses involves the rapid activation of AMPA ( α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate ) receptors , glutamate-gated ion channels whose four subunits assemble as a dimer-of-dimers . Technical advances in cryo-electron microscopy brought a slew of full-length structures of AMPA receptors , on their own and in combination with auxiliary subunits . These structures indicate that dimers might undergo substantial lateral motions during gating , opening up the extracellular layer along the central twofold symmetry axis . We used bifunctional methanethiosulfonate cross-linkers to calibrate the conformations found in functional AMPA receptors in the presence and absence of the auxiliary subunit Stargazin . Our data indicate that extracellular layer of AMPA receptors can get trapped in stable , opened-up conformations , especially upon long exposures to glutamate . In contrast , Stargazin limits this conformational flexibility . Thus , un
Single cell isolation from helminth-infected murine intestines has been notoriously difficult , due to the strong anti-parasite type 2 immune responses that drive mucus production , tissue remodeling and immune cell infiltration . Through the systematic optimization of a standard intestinal digestion protocol , we were able to successfully isolate millions of immune cells from the heavily infected duodenum . To validate that these cells gave an accurate representation of intestinal immune responses , we analyzed them using a high-dimensional spectral flow cytometry panel and confirmed our findings by confocal microscopy . Our cell isolation protocol and high-dimensional analysis allowed us to identify many known hallmarks of anti-parasite immune responses throughout the entire course of helminth infection and has the potential to accelerate single-cell discoveries of local helminth immune responses that have previously been unfeasible . 
Proteasomal protein degradation is a key determinant of protein half-life and hence of cellular processes ranging from basic metabolism to a host of immunological processes . Despite its importance the mechanisms regulating proteasome activity are only incompletely understood . Here we use an iterative and tightly integrated experimental and modelling approach to develop , explore and validate mechanistic models of proteasomal peptide-hydrolysis dynamics . The 20S proteasome is a dynamic enzyme and its activity varies over time because of interactions between substrates and products and the proteolytic and regulatory sites; the locations of these sites and the interactions between them are predicted by the model , and experimentally supported . The analysis suggests that the rate-limiting step of hydrolysis is the transport of the substrates into the proteasome . The transport efficiency varies between human standard- and immuno-proteasomes thereby impinging upon total degradation rate
The recycling of neurotransmitters is essential for sustained synaptic transmission . In Drosophila , histamine recycling is required for visual synaptic transmission . Synaptic histamine is rapidly taken up by laminar glia , and is converted to carcinine . After delivered back to photoreceptors , carcinine is hydrolyzed to release histamine and β-alanine . This histamine is repackaged into synaptic vesicles , but it is unclear how the β-alanine is returned to the laminar glial cells . Here , we identified a new β-alanine transporter , which we named BalaT ( Beta-alanine Transporter ) . Null balat mutants exhibited lower levels of β-alanine , as well as less β-alanine accumulation in the retina . Moreover , BalaT is expressed and required in retinal pigment cells for maintaining visual synaptic transmission and phototaxis behavior . These results provide the first genetic evidence that retinal pigment cells play a critical role in visual neurotransmission , and suggest that a BalaT-dep
The precise roles that oxidants play in lifespan and aging are still unknown . Here , we report the discovery that chronologically aging yeast cells undergo a sudden redox collapse , which affects over 80% of identified thiol-containing proteins . We present evidence that this redox collapse is not triggered by an increase in endogenous oxidants as would have been postulated by the free radical theory of aging . Instead it appears to be instigated by a substantial drop in cellular NADPH , which normally provides the electron source for maintaining cellular redox homeostasis . This decrease in NADPH levels occurs very early during lifespan and sets into motion a cascade that is predicted to down-regulate most cellular processes . Caloric restriction , a near-universal lifespan extending measure , increases NADPH levels and delays each facet of the cascade . Our studies reveal a time line of events leading up to the system-wide oxidation of the proteome days before cell death . 
The biological macromolecular world is homochiral and effective enforcement and perpetuation of this homochirality is essential for cell survival . In this study , we present the mechanistic basis of a configuration-specific enzyme that selectively removes D-amino acids erroneously coupled to tRNAs . The crystal structure of dimeric D-aminoacyl-tRNA deacylase ( DTD ) from Plasmodium falciparum in complex with a substrate-mimicking analog shows how it uses an invariant ‘cross-subunit’ Gly-cisPro dipeptide to capture the chiral centre of incoming D-aminoacyl-tRNA . While no protein residues are directly involved in catalysis , the unique side chain-independent mode of substrate recognition provides a clear explanation for DTD’s ability to act on multiple D-amino acids . The strict chiral specificity elegantly explains how the enriched cellular pool of L-aminoacyl-tRNAs escapes this proofreading step . The study thus provides insights into a fundamental enantioselection process and elucid
In CFTR , the chloride channel mutated in cystic fibrosis ( CF ) patients , ATP-binding-induced dimerization of two cytosolic nucleotide binding domains ( NBDs ) opens the pore , and dimer disruption following ATP hydrolysis closes it . Spontaneous openings without ATP are rare in wild-type CFTR , but in certain CF mutants constitute the only gating mechanism , stimulated by ivacaftor , a clinically approved CFTR potentiator . The molecular motions underlying spontaneous gating are unclear . Here we correlate energetic coupling between residues across the dimer interface with spontaneous pore opening/closure in single CFTR channels . We show that spontaneous openings are also strictly coupled to NBD dimerization , which may therefore occur even without ATP . Coordinated NBD/pore movements are therefore intrinsic to CFTR: ATP alters the stability , but not the fundamental structural architecture , of open- and closed-pore conformations . This explains correlated effects of phosphorylati
We present a mechanism for a generic , powerful force of assembly and mobility for transmembrane proteins in lipid bilayers . This force is a pre-transition ( or pre-melting ) effect for the first-order transition between ordered and disordered phases in the membrane . Using large-scale molecular simulation , we show that a protein with hydrophobic thickness equal to that of the disordered phase embedded in an ordered bilayer stabilizes a microscopic order–disorder interface . The stiffness of that interface is finite . When two such proteins approach each other , they assemble because assembly reduces the net interfacial energy . Analogous to the hydrophobic effect , we refer to this phenomenon as the 'orderphobic effect' . The effect is mediated by proximity to the order–disorder phase transition and the size and hydrophobic mismatch of the protein . The strength and range of forces arising from this effect are significantly larger than those that could arise from membrane elasticity
Fluorescent calcium indicators are often used to investigate neural dynamics , but the relationship between fluorescence and action potentials ( APs ) remains unclear . Most APs can be detected when the soma almost fills the microscope’s field of view , but calcium indicators are used to image populations of neurons , necessitating a large field of view , generating fewer photons per neuron , and compromising AP detection . Here , we characterized the AP-fluorescence transfer function in vivo for 48 layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons in primary visual cortex , with simultaneous calcium imaging and cell-attached recordings from transgenic mice expressing GCaMP6s or GCaMP6f . While most APs were detected under optimal conditions , under conditions typical of population imaging studies , only a minority of 1 AP and 2 AP events were detected ( often <10% and ~20–30% , respectively ) , emphasizing the limits of AP detection under more realistic imaging conditions . 
We report a functional switching valve within the female genitalia of the Brazilian cave insect Neotrogla . The valve complex is composed of two plate-like sclerites , a closure element , and in-and-outflow canals . Females have a penis-like intromittent organ to coercively anchor males and obtain voluminous semen . The semen is packed in a capsule , whose formation is initiated by seminal injection . It is not only used for fertilization but also consumed by the female as nutrition . The valve complex has two slots for insemination so that Neotrogla can continue mating while the first slot is occupied . In conjunction with the female penis , this switching valve is a morphological novelty enabling females to compete for seminal gifts in their nutrient-poor cave habitats through long copulation times and multiple seminal injections . The evolution of this switching valve may have been a prerequisite for the reversal of the intromittent organ in Neotrogla . 
Synaptic-soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment receptor ( SNARE ) proteins couple their stage-wise folding/assembly to rapid exocytosis of neurotransmitters in a Munc18-1-dependent manner . The functions of the different assembly stages in exocytosis and the role of Munc18-1 in SNARE assembly are not well understood . Using optical tweezers , we observed four distinct stages of assembly in SNARE N-terminal , middle , C-terminal , and linker domains ( or NTD , MD , CTD , and LD , respectively ) . We found that SNARE layer mutations differentially affect SNARE assembly . Comparison of their effects on SNARE assembly and on exocytosis reveals that NTD and CTD are responsible for vesicle docking and fusion , respectively , whereas MD regulates SNARE assembly and fusion . Munc18-1 initiates SNARE assembly and structures t-SNARE C-terminus independent of syntaxin N-terminal regulatory domain ( NRD ) and stabilizes the half-zippered SNARE complex dependent upon the NRD . Our ob
How can the integrin adhesome get self-assembled locally , rapidly , and correctly as diverse cell-matrix adhesion sites ? Here , we investigate this question by exploring the cytosolic state of integrin-adhesome components and their dynamic exchange between adhesion sites and cytosol . Using fluorescence cross-correlation spectroscopy ( FCCS ) and fluorescence recovery after photobleaching ( FRAP ) we found that the integrin adhesome is extensively pre-assembled already in the cytosol as multi-protein building blocks for adhesion sites . Stationary focal adhesions release symmetrically the same types of protein complexes that they recruit , thereby keeping the cytosolic pool of building blocks spatiotemporally uniform . We conclude a model in which multi-protein building blocks enable rapid and modular self-assembly of adhesion sites and symmetric exchange of these building blocks preserves their specifications and thus the assembly logic of the system . 
Deep non-rapid eye movement sleep ( NREM ) and general anesthesia with propofol are prominent states of reduced arousal linked to the occurrence of synchronized oscillations in the electroencephalogram ( EEG ) . Although rapid eye movement ( REM ) sleep is also associated with diminished arousal levels , it is characterized by a desynchronized , ‘wake-like’ EEG . This observation implies that reduced arousal states are not necessarily only defined by synchronous oscillatory activity . Using intracranial and surface EEG recordings in four independent data sets , we demonstrate that the 1/f spectral slope of the electrophysiological power spectrum , which reflects the non-oscillatory , scale-free component of neural activity , delineates wakefulness from propofol anesthesia , NREM and REM sleep . Critically , the spectral slope discriminates wakefulness from REM sleep solely based on the neurophysiological brain state . Taken together , our findings describe a common electrophysiological
Dynamic tubular extensions from chloroplasts called stromules have recently been shown to connect with nuclei and function during innate immunity . We demonstrate that stromules extend along microtubules ( MTs ) and MT organization directly affects stromule dynamics since stabilization of MTs chemically or genetically increases stromule numbers and length . Although actin filaments ( AFs ) are not required for stromule extension , they provide anchor points for stromules . Interestingly , there is a strong correlation between the direction of stromules from chloroplasts and the direction of chloroplast movement . Stromule-directed chloroplast movement was observed in steady-state conditions without immune induction , suggesting it is a general function of stromules in epidermal cells . Our results show that MTs and AFs may facilitate perinuclear clustering of chloroplasts during an innate immune response . We propose a model in which stromules extend along MTs and connect to AF anchor 
Do the amino acid sequence identities of residues that make contact across protein interfaces covary during evolution ? If so , such covariance could be used to predict contacts across interfaces and assemble models of biological complexes . We find that residue pairs identified using a pseudo-likelihood-based method to covary across protein–protein interfaces in the 50S ribosomal unit and 28 additional bacterial protein complexes with known structure are almost always in contact in the complex , provided that the number of aligned sequences is greater than the average length of the two proteins . We use this method to make subunit contact predictions for an additional 36 protein complexes with unknown structures , and present models based on these predictions for the tripartite ATP-independent periplasmic ( TRAP ) transporter , the tripartite efflux system , the pyruvate formate lyase-activating enzyme complex , and the methionine ABC transporter . 
Interpreting visual scenes typically requires us to accumulate information from multiple locations in a scene . Using a novel gaze-contingent paradigm in a visual categorization task , we show that participants' scan paths follow an active sensing strategy that incorporates information already acquired about the scene and knowledge of the statistical structure of patterns . Intriguingly , categorization performance was markedly improved when locations were revealed to participants by an optimal Bayesian active sensor algorithm . By using a combination of a Bayesian ideal observer and the active sensor algorithm , we estimate that a major portion of this apparent suboptimality of fixation locations arises from prior biases , perceptual noise and inaccuracies in eye movements , and the central process of selecting fixation locations is around 70% efficient in our task . Our results suggest that participants select eye movements with the goal of maximizing information about abstract categ
Nucleocytoplasmic transport is tightly regulated by the nuclear pore complex ( NPC ) . Among the thousands of molecules that cross the NPC , even very large ( >15 nm ) cargoes such as pathogens , mRNAs and pre-ribosomes can pass the NPC intact . For these cargoes , there is little quantitative understanding of the requirements for their nuclear import , especially the role of multivalent binding to transport receptors via nuclear localisation sequences ( NLSs ) and the effect of size on import efficiency . Here , we assayed nuclear import kinetics of 30 large cargo models based on four capsid-like particles in the size range of 17–36 nm , with tuneable numbers of up to 240 NLSs . We show that the requirements for nuclear transport can be recapitulated by a simple two-parameter biophysical model that correlates the import flux with the energetics of large cargo transport through the NPC . Together , our results reveal key molecular determinants of large cargo import in cells . 
The co-stimulatory molecule CD28 is essential for activation of helper T cells . Despite this critical role , it is not known whether CD28 has functions in maintaining T cell responses following activation . To determine the role for CD28 after T cell priming , we generated a strain of mice where CD28 is removed from CD4+ T cells after priming . We show that continued CD28 expression is important for effector CD4+ T cells following infection; maintained CD28 is required for the expansion of T helper type 1 cells , and for the differentiation and maintenance of T follicular helper cells during viral infection . Persistent CD28 is also required for clearance of the bacterium Citrobacter rodentium from the gastrointestinal tract . Together , this study demonstrates that CD28 persistence is required for helper T cell polarization in response to infection , describing a novel function for CD28 that is distinct from its role in T cell priming . 
Helical cell shape is necessary for efficient stomach colonization by Helicobacter pylori , but the molecular mechanisms for generating helical shape remain unclear . The helical centerline pitch and radius of wild-type H . pylori cells dictate surface curvatures of considerably higher positive and negative Gaussian curvatures than those present in straight- or curved-rod H . pylori . Quantitative 3D microscopy analysis of short pulses with either N-acetylmuramic acid or D-alanine metabolic probes showed that cell wall growth is enhanced at both sidewall curvature extremes . Immunofluorescence revealed MreB is most abundant at negative Gaussian curvature , while the bactofilin CcmA is most abundant at positive Gaussian curvature . Strains expressing CcmA variants with altered polymerization properties lose helical shape and associated positive Gaussian curvatures . We thus propose a model where CcmA and MreB promote PG synthesis at positive and negative Gaussian curvatures , respective
Cdc48/p97 , a ubiquitin-selective chaperone , orchestrates the function of E3 ligases and deubiquitylases ( DUBs ) . Here , we identify a new function of Cdc48 in ubiquitin-dependent regulation of mitochondrial dynamics . The DUBs Ubp12 and Ubp2 exert opposing effects on mitochondrial fusion and cleave different ubiquitin chains on the mitofusin Fzo1 . We demonstrate that Cdc48 integrates the activities of these two DUBs , which are themselves ubiquitylated . First , Cdc48 promotes proteolysis of Ubp12 , stabilizing pro-fusion ubiquitylation on Fzo1 . Second , loss of Ubp12 stabilizes Ubp2 and thereby facilitates removal of ubiquitin chains on Fzo1 inhibiting fusion . Thus , Cdc48 synergistically regulates the ubiquitylation status of Fzo1 , allowing to control the balance between activation or repression of mitochondrial fusion . In conclusion , we unravel a new cascade of ubiquitylation events , comprising Cdc48 and two DUBs , fine-tuning the fusogenic activity of Fzo1 . 
Is vision necessary for the development of the categorical organization of the Ventral Occipito-Temporal Cortex ( VOTC ) ? We used fMRI to characterize VOTC responses to eight categories presented acoustically in sighted and early blind individuals , and visually in a separate sighted group . We observed that VOTC reliably encodes sound categories in sighted and blind people using a representational structure and connectivity partially similar to the one found in vision . Sound categories were , however , more reliably encoded in the blind than the sighted group , using a representational format closer to the one found in vision . Crucially , VOTC in blind represents the categorical membership of sounds rather than their acoustic features . Our results suggest that sounds trigger categorical responses in the VOTC of congenitally blind and sighted people that partially match the topography and functional profile of the visual response , despite qualitative nuances in the categorical org
Many microbes induce striking behavioral changes in their animal hosts , but how they achieve this is poorly understood , especially at the molecular level . Mechanistic understanding has been largely constrained by the lack of an experimental system amenable to molecular manipulation . We recently discovered a strain of the behavior-manipulating fungal pathogen Entomophthora muscae infecting wild Drosophila , and established methods to infect D . melanogaster in the lab . Lab-infected flies manifest the moribund behaviors characteristic of E . muscae infection: hours before death , they climb upward , extend their proboscides , affixing in place , then raise their wings , clearing a path for infectious spores to launch from their abdomens . We found that E . muscae invades the nervous system , suggesting a direct means by which the fungus could induce behavioral changes . Given the vast molecular toolkit available for D . melanogaster , we believe this new system will enable rapid pro
RNA degradation pathways enable RNA processing , the regulation of RNA levels , and the surveillance of aberrant or poorly functional RNAs in cells . Here we provide transcriptome-wide RNA-binding profiles of 30 general RNA degradation factors in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae . The profiles reveal the distribution of degradation factors between different RNA classes . They are consistent with the canonical degradation pathway for closed-loop forming mRNAs after deadenylation . Modeling based on mRNA half-lives suggests that most degradation factors bind intact mRNAs , whereas decapping factors are recruited only for mRNA degradation , consistent with decapping being a rate-limiting step . Decapping factors preferentially bind mRNAs with non-optimal codons , consistent with rapid degradation of inefficiently translated mRNAs . Global analysis suggests that the nuclear surveillance machinery , including the complexes Nrd1/Nab3 and TRAMP4 , targets aberrant nuclear RNAs and processes
Temporal dynamics of gene expression underpin responses to internal and environmental stimuli . In eukaryotes , regulation of gene induction includes changing chromatin states at target genes and recruiting the transcriptional machinery that includes transcription factors . As one of the most potent defense compounds in Arabidopsis thaliana , camalexin can be rapidly induced by bacterial and fungal infections . Though several transcription factors controlling camalexin biosynthesis genes have been characterized , how the rapid activation of genes in this pathway upon a pathogen signal is enabled remains unknown . By combining publicly available epigenomic data with in vivo chromatin modification mapping , we found that camalexin biosynthesis genes are marked with two epigenetic modifications with opposite effects on gene expression , trimethylation of lysine 27 of histone 3 ( H3K27me3 ) ( repression ) and acetylation of lysine 18 of histone 3 ( H3K18ac ) ( activation ) , to form a prev
The epigenetic mechanisms that enable specialized astrocytes to retain neurogenic competence throughout adult life are still poorly understood . Here we show that astrocytes that serve as neural stem cells ( NSCs ) in the adult mouse subventricular zone ( SVZ ) express the histone methyltransferase EZH2 . This Polycomb repressive factor is required for neurogenesis independent of its role in SVZ NSC proliferation , as Ink4a/Arf-deficiency in Ezh2-deleted SVZ NSCs rescues cell proliferation , but neurogenesis remains defective . Olig2 is a direct target of EZH2 , and repression of this bHLH transcription factor is critical for neuronal differentiation . Furthermore , Ezh2 prevents the inappropriate activation of genes associated with non-SVZ neuronal subtypes . In the human brain , SVZ cells including local astroglia also express EZH2 , correlating with postnatal neurogenesis . Thus , EZH2 is an epigenetic regulator that distinguishes neurogenic SVZ astrocytes , orchestrating distinct a
Viruses modulate microbial communities and alter ecosystem functions . However , due to cultivation bottlenecks , specific virus–host interaction dynamics remain cryptic . In this study , we examined 127 single-cell amplified genomes ( SAGs ) from uncultivated SUP05 bacteria isolated from a model marine oxygen minimum zone ( OMZ ) to identify 69 viral contigs representing five new genera within dsDNA Caudovirales and ssDNA Microviridae . Infection frequencies suggest that ∼1/3 of SUP05 bacteria is viral-infected , with higher infection frequency where oxygen-deficiency was most severe . Observed Microviridae clonality suggests recovery of bloom-terminating viruses , while systematic co-infection between dsDNA and ssDNA viruses posits previously unrecognized cooperation modes . Analyses of 186 microbial and viral metagenomes revealed that SUP05 viruses persisted for years , but remained endemic to the OMZ . Finally , identification of virus-encoded dissimilatory sulfite reductase sugges
Cilia/flagella are assembled and maintained by the process of intraflagellar transport ( IFT ) , a highly conserved mechanism involving more than 20 IFT proteins . However , the functions of individual IFT proteins are mostly unclear . To help address this issue , we focused on a putative IFT protein TTC26/DYF13 . Using live imaging and biochemical approaches we show that TTC26/DYF13 is an IFT complex B protein in mammalian cells and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii . Knockdown of TTC26/DYF13 in zebrafish embryos or mutation of TTC26/DYF13 in C . reinhardtii , produced short cilia with abnormal motility . Surprisingly , IFT particle assembly and speed were normal in dyf13 mutant flagella , unlike in other IFT complex B mutants . Proteomic and biochemical analyses indicated a particular set of proteins involved in motility was specifically depleted in the dyf13 mutant . These results support the concept that different IFT proteins are responsible for different cargo subsets , providing a possi
Lymphatic invasion and lymph node metastasis correlate with poor clinical outcome in melanoma . However , the mechanisms of lymphatic dissemination in distant metastasis remain incompletely understood . We show here that exposure of expansively growing human WM852 melanoma cells , but not singly invasive Bowes cells , to lymphatic endothelial cells ( LEC ) in 3D co-culture facilitates melanoma distant organ metastasis in mice . To dissect the underlying molecular mechanisms , we established LEC co-cultures with different melanoma cells originating from primary tumors or metastases . Notably , the expansively growing metastatic melanoma cells adopted an invasively sprouting phenotype in 3D matrix that was dependent on MMP14 , Notch3 and β1-integrin . Unexpectedly , MMP14 was necessary for LEC-induced Notch3 induction and coincident β1-integrin activation . Moreover , MMP14 and Notch3 were required for LEC-mediated metastasis of zebrafish xenografts . This study uncovers a unique mechani
MicroRNAs ( miRNAs ) are conserved noncoding RNAs that function as posttranscriptional regulators of gene expression . miR-9 is one of the most abundant miRNAs in the brain . Although the function of miR-9 has been well characterized in neural progenitors , its role in dendritic and synaptic development remains largely unknown . In order to target miR-9 in vivo , we developed a transgenic miRNA sponge mouse line allowing conditional inactivation of the miR-9 family in a spatio-temporal-controlled manner . Using this novel approach , we found that miR-9 controls dendritic growth and synaptic transmission in vivo . Furthermore , we demonstrate that miR-9-mediated downregulation of the transcriptional repressor REST is essential for proper dendritic growth . 
Social visual engagement difficulties are hallmark early signs of autism ( ASD ) and are easily quantified using eye tracking methods . However , it is unclear how these difficulties are linked to atypical early functional brain organization in ASD . With resting state fMRI data in a large sample of ASD toddlers and other non-ASD comparison groups , we find ASD-related functional hypoconnnectivity between ‘social brain’ circuitry such as the default mode network ( DMN ) and visual and attention networks . An eye tracking-identified ASD subtype with pronounced early social visual engagement difficulties ( GeoPref ASD ) is characterized by marked DMN-occipito-temporal cortex ( OTC ) hypoconnectivity . Increased DMN-OTC hypoconnectivity is also related to increased severity of social-communication difficulties , but only in GeoPref ASD . Early and pronounced social-visual circuit hypoconnectivity is a key underlying neurobiological feature describing GeoPref ASD and may be critical for fu
Virtually all species of coelomate animals contain blood cells that display a division of labor necessary for homeostasis . This functional partition depends upon the balance between proliferation and differentiation mostly accomplished in the hematopoietic organs . In Drosophila melanogaster , the lymph gland produces plasmatocytes and crystal cells that are not released until pupariation . Yet , throughout larval development , both hemocyte types increase in numbers . Mature plasmatocytes can proliferate but it is not known if crystal cell numbers increase by self-renewal or by de novo differentiation . We show that new crystal cells in third instar larvae originate through a Notch-dependent process of plasmatocyte transdifferentiation . This process occurs in the sessile clusters and is contingent upon the integrity of these structures . The existence of this hematopoietic tissue , relying on structure-dependent signaling events to promote blood homeostasis , creates a new paradigm 
Aneuploidy is linked to myriad diseases but also facilitates organismal evolution . It remains unclear how cells overcome the deleterious effects of aneuploidy until new phenotypes evolve . Although laboratory strains are extremely sensitive to aneuploidy , we show here that aneuploidy is common in wild yeast isolates , which show lower-than-expected expression at many amplified genes . We generated diploid strain panels in which cells carried two , three , or four copies of the affected chromosomes , to show that gene-dosage compensation functions at 10–30% of amplified genes . Genes subject to dosage compensation are under higher expression constraint in wild populations—but they show elevated rates of gene amplification , suggesting that copy-number variation is buffered at these genes . We find that aneuploidy provides a clear ecological advantage to oak strain YPS1009 , by amplifying a causal gene that escapes dosage compensation . Our work presents a model in which dosage compens
Animals detect light using opsin photopigments . Xenopsin , a recently classified subtype of opsin , challenges our views on opsin and photoreceptor evolution . Originally thought to belong to the Gαi-coupled ciliary opsins , xenopsins are now understood to have diverged from ciliary opsins in pre-bilaterian times , but little is known about the cells that deploy these proteins , or if they form a photopigment and drive phototransduction . We characterized xenopsin in a flatworm , Maritigrella crozieri , and found it expressed in ciliary cells of eyes in the larva , and in extraocular cells around the brain in the adult . These extraocular cells house hundreds of cilia in an intra-cellular vacuole ( phaosome ) . Functional assays in human cells show Maritigrella xenopsin drives phototransduction primarily by coupling to Gαi . These findings highlight similarities between xenopsin and c-opsin and reveal a novel type of opsin-expressing cell that , like jawed vertebrate rods , encloses t
Spatial and temporal cues are required to specify neuronal diversity , but how these cues are integrated in neural progenitors remains unknown . Drosophila progenitors ( neuroblasts ) are a good model: they are individually identifiable with relevant spatial and temporal transcription factors known . Here we test whether spatial/temporal factors act independently or sequentially in neuroblasts . We used Targeted DamID to identify genomic binding sites of the Hunchback temporal factor in two neuroblasts ( NB5-6 and NB7-4 ) that make different progeny . Hunchback targets were different in each neuroblast , ruling out the independent specification model . Moreover , each neuroblast had distinct open chromatin domains , which correlated with differential Hb-bound loci in each neuroblast . Importantly , the Gsb/Pax3 spatial factor , expressed in NB5-6 but not NB7-4 , had genomic binding sites correlated with open chromatin in NB5-6 , but not NB7-4 . Our data support a model in which early-a
P2X receptors function by opening a transmembrane pore in response to extracellular ATP . Recent crystal structures solved in apo and ATP-bound states revealed molecular motions of the extracellular domain following agonist binding . However , the mechanism of pore opening still remains controversial . Here we use photo-switchable cross-linkers as ‘molecular tweezers’ to monitor a series of inter-residue distances in the transmembrane domain of the P2X2 receptor during activation . These experimentally based structural constraints combined with computational studies provide high-resolution models of the channel in the open and closed states . We show that the extent of the outer pore expansion is significantly reduced compared to the ATP-bound structure . Our data further reveal that the inner and outer ends of adjacent pore-lining helices come closer during opening , likely through a hinge-bending motion . These results provide new insight into the gating mechanism of P2X receptors an
Cytokinesis , the physical division of one cell into two , is powered by constriction of an actomyosin contractile ring . It has long been assumed that all animal cells divide by a similar molecular mechanism , but growing evidence suggests that cytokinetic regulation in individual cell types has more variation than previously realized . In the four-cell Caenorhabditis elegans embryo , each blastomere has a distinct cell fate , specified by conserved pathways . Using fast-acting temperature-sensitive mutants and acute drug treatment , we identified cell-type-specific variation in the cytokinetic requirement for a robust forminCYK-1-dependent filamentous-actin ( F-actin ) cytoskeleton . In one cell ( P2 ) , this cytokinetic variation is cell-intrinsically regulated , whereas in another cell ( EMS ) this variation is cell-extrinsically regulated , dependent on both SrcSRC-1 signaling and direct contact with its neighbor cell , P2 . Thus , both cell-intrinsic and -extrinsic mechanisms con
Bacterial flagella mediate host–microbe interactions through tissue tropism during colonization , as well as by activating immune responses . The flagellar shaft of some bacteria , including several human pathogens , is encased in a membranous sheath of unknown function . While it has been hypothesized that the sheath may allow these bacteria to evade host responses to the immunogenic flagellin subunit , this unusual structural feature has remained an enigma . Here we demonstrate that the rotation of the sheathed flagellum in both the mutualist Vibrio fischeri and the pathogen Vibrio cholerae promotes release of a potent bacteria-derived immunogen , lipopolysaccharide , found in the flagellar sheath . We further present a new role for the flagellar sheath in triggering , rather than circumventing , host immune responses in the model squid-vibrio symbiosis . Such an observation not only has implications for the study of bacterial pathogens with sheathed flagella , but also raises import
Genome instability is associated with mitotic errors and cancer . This phenomenon can lead to deleterious rearrangements , but also genetic novelty , and many questions regarding its genesis , fate and evolutionary role remain unanswered . Here , we describe extreme chromosomal restructuring during genome elimination , a process resulting from hybridization of Arabidopsis plants expressing different centromere histones H3 . Shattered chromosomes are formed from the genome of the haploid inducer , consistent with genomic catastrophes affecting a single , laggard chromosome compartmentalized within a micronucleus . Analysis of breakpoint junctions implicates breaks followed by repair through non-homologous end joining ( NHEJ ) or stalled fork repair . Furthermore , mutation of required NHEJ factor DNA Ligase 4 results in enhanced haploid recovery . Lastly , heritability and stability of a rearranged chromosome suggest a potential for enduring genomic novelty . These findings provide a tr
Latent Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) infection is causally linked to several human cancers . EBV expresses viral oncogenes that promote cell growth and inhibit the apoptotic response to uncontrolled proliferation . The EBV oncoprotein LMP1 constitutively activates NFκB and is critical for survival of EBV-immortalized B cells . However , during early infection EBV induces rapid B cell proliferation with low levels of LMP1 and little apoptosis . Therefore , we sought to define the mechanism of survival in the absence of LMP1/NFκB early after infection . We used BH3 profiling to query mitochondrial regulation of apoptosis and defined a transition from uninfected B cells ( BCL-2 ) to early-infected ( MCL-1/BCL-2 ) and immortalized cells ( BFL-1 ) . This dynamic change in B cell survival mechanisms is unique to virus-infected cells and relies on regulation of MCL-1 mitochondrial localization and BFL-1 transcription by the viral EBNA3A protein . This study defines a new role for EBNA3A in the s
Plants produce diverse metabolites to cope with the challenges presented by complex and ever-changing environments . These challenges drive the diversification of specialized metabolites within and between plant species . However , we are just beginning to understand how frequently new alleles arise controlling specialized metabolite diversity and how the geographic distribution of these alleles may be structured by ecological and demographic pressures . Here , we measure the variation in specialized metabolites across a population of 797 natural Arabidopsis thaliana accessions . We show that a combination of geography , environmental parameters , demography and different genetic processes all combine to influence the specific chemotypes and their distribution . This showed that causal loci in specialized metabolism contain frequent independently generated alleles with patterns suggesting potential within-species convergence . This provides a new perspective about the complexity of the
Apoptosis and its molecular mediators , the caspases , have long been regarded as tumor suppressors and one hallmark of cancer is ‘Evading Apoptosis’ . However , recent work has suggested that apoptotic caspases can also promote proliferation and tumor growth under certain conditions . How caspases promote proliferation and how cells are protected from the potentially harmful action of apoptotic caspases is largely unknown . Here , we show that although caspases are activated in a well-studied neoplastic tumor model in Drosophila , oncogenic mutations of the proto-oncogene Ras ( RasV12 ) maintain tumorous cells in an ‘undead’-like condition and transform caspases from tumor suppressors into tumor promotors . Instead of killing cells , caspases now promote the generation of intra- and extracellular reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) . One function of the ROS is the recruitment and activation of macrophage-like immune cells which in turn signal back to tumorous epithelial cells to activate 
Communication through body gestures permeates our daily life . Efficient perception of the message therein reflects one’s social cognitive competency . Here we report that such competency is manifested temporally as shortened subjective duration of social interactions: motion sequences showing agents acting communicatively are perceived to be significantly shorter in duration as compared with those acting noncommunicatively . The strength of this effect is negatively correlated with one’s autistic-like tendency . Critically , intranasal oxytocin administration restores the temporal compression effect in socially less proficient individuals , whereas the administration of atosiban , a competitive antagonist of oxytocin , diminishes the effect in socially proficient individuals . These findings indicate that perceived time , rather than being a faithful representation of physical time , is highly idiosyncratic and ingrained with one’s personality trait . Moreover , they suggest that oxyt
The interaction between the SARS-CoV-2 virus Spike protein receptor binding domain ( RBD ) and the ACE2 cell surface protein is required for viral infection of cells . Mutations in the RBD are present in SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern that have emerged independently worldwide . For example , the B . 1 . 1 . 7 lineage has a mutation ( N501Y ) in its Spike RBD that enhances binding to ACE2 . There are also ACE2 alleles in humans with mutations in the RBD binding site . Here we perform a detailed affinity and kinetics analysis of the effect of five common RBD mutations ( K417N , K417T , N501Y , E484K , and S477N ) and two common ACE2 mutations ( S19P and K26R ) on the RBD/ACE2 interaction . We analysed the effects of individual RBD mutations and combinations found in new SARS-CoV-2 Alpha ( B . 1 . 1 . 7 ) , Beta ( B . 1 . 351 ) , and Gamma ( P1 ) variants . Most of these mutations increased the affinity of the RBD/ACE2 interaction . The exceptions were mutations K417N/T , which decreased 
Gene–gene interactions shape complex phenotypes and modify the effects of mutations during development and disease . The effects of statistical gene–gene interactions on phenotypes have been used to assign genes to functional modules . However , directional , epistatic interactions , which reflect regulatory relationships between genes , have been challenging to map at large-scale . Here , we used combinatorial RNA interference and automated single-cell phenotyping to generate a large genetic interaction map for 21 phenotypic features of Drosophila cells . We devised a method that combines genetic interactions on multiple phenotypes to reveal directional relationships . This network reconstructed the sequence of protein activities in mitosis . Moreover , it revealed that the Ras pathway interacts with the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodelling complex , an interaction that we show is conserved in human cancer cells . Our study presents a powerful approach for reconstructing directional regulato
Heterostyly is a wide-spread floral adaptation to promote outbreeding , yet its genetic basis and evolutionary origin remain poorly understood . In Primula ( primroses ) , heterostyly is controlled by the S-locus supergene that determines the reciprocal arrangement of reproductive organs and incompatibility between the two morphs . However , the identities of the component genes remain unknown . Here , we identify the Primula CYP734A50 gene , encoding a putative brassinosteroid-degrading enzyme , as the G locus that determines the style-length dimorphism . CYP734A50 is only present on the short-styled S-morph haplotype , it is specifically expressed in S-morph styles , and its loss or inactivation leads to long styles . The gene arose by a duplication specific to the Primulaceae lineage and shows an accelerated rate of molecular evolution . Thus , our results provide a mechanistic explanation for the Primula style-length dimorphism and begin to shed light on the evolution of the S-locu
Kisspeptin ( Kiss1 ) and neurokinin B ( NKB ) neurocircuits are essential for pubertal development and fertility . Kisspeptin neurons in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus ( Kiss1ARH ) co-express Kiss1 , NKB , dynorphin and glutamate and are postulated to provide an episodic , excitatory drive to gonadotropin-releasing hormone 1 ( GnRH ) neurons , the synaptic mechanisms of which are unknown . We characterized the cellular basis for synchronized Kiss1ARH neuronal activity using optogenetics , whole-cell electrophysiology , molecular pharmacology and single cell RT-PCR in mice . High-frequency photostimulation of Kiss1ARH neurons evoked local release of excitatory ( NKB ) and inhibitory ( dynorphin ) neuropeptides , which were found to synchronize the Kiss1ARH neuronal firing . The light-evoked synchronous activity caused robust excitation of GnRH neurons by a synaptic mechanism that also involved glutamatergic input to preoptic Kiss1 neurons from Kiss1ARH neurons . We propose that Kiss1A
Bone morphogenic protein ( BMP ) signalling contributes towards maintenance of pluripotency and favours mesodermal over neural fates upon differentiation , but the mechanisms by which BMP controls differentiation are not well understood . We report that BMP regulates differentiation by blocking downregulation of Cdh1 , an event that accompanies the earliest stages of neural and mesodermal differentiation . We find that loss of Cdh1 is a limiting requirement for differentiation of pluripotent cells , and that experimental suppression of Cdh1 activity rescues the BMP-imposed block to differentiation . We further show that BMP acts prior to and independently of Cdh1 to prime pluripotent cells for mesoderm differentiation , thus helping to reinforce the block to neural differentiation . We conclude that differentiation depends not only on exposure to appropriate extrinsic cues but also on morphogenetic events that control receptivity to those differentiation cues , and we explain how a key
The two centrioles of the centrosome in quiescent cells are inherently asymmetric structures that differ in age , morphology and function . How these asymmetric properties are established and maintained during quiescence remains unknown . Here , we show that a daughter centriole-associated ciliopathy protein , Cep120 , plays a critical inhibitory role at daughter centrioles . Depletion of Cep120 in quiescent mouse and human cells causes accumulation of pericentriolar material ( PCM ) components including pericentrin , Cdk5Rap2 , ninein and Cep170 . The elevated PCM levels result in increased microtubule-nucleation activity at the centrosome . Consequently , loss of Cep120 leads to aberrant dynein-dependent trafficking of centrosomal proteins , dispersal of centriolar satellites , and defective ciliary assembly and signaling . Our results indicate that Cep120 helps to maintain centrosome homeostasis by inhibiting untimely maturation of the daughter centriole , and defines a potentially 
Neuron-glia interactions play a critical role in the maturation of neural circuits; however , little is known about the pathways that mediate their communication in the developing CNS . We investigated neuron-glia signaling in the developing retina , where we demonstrate that retinal waves reliably induce calcium transients in Müller glial cells ( MCs ) . During cholinergic waves , MC calcium transients were blocked by muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonists , whereas during glutamatergic waves , MC calcium transients were inhibited by ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists , indicating that the responsiveness of MCs changes to match the neurotransmitter used to support retinal waves . Using an optical glutamate sensor we show that the decline in MC calcium transients is caused by a reduction in the amount of glutamate reaching MCs . Together , these studies indicate that neurons and MCs exhibit correlated activity during a critical period of retinal maturation that is enabled
Establishing the time since death is critical in every death investigation , yet existing techniques are susceptible to a range of errors and biases . For example , forensic entomology is widely used to assess the postmortem interval ( PMI ) , but errors can range from days to months . Microbes may provide a novel method for estimating PMI that avoids many of these limitations . Here we show that postmortem microbial community changes are dramatic , measurable , and repeatable in a mouse model system , allowing PMI to be estimated within approximately 3 days over 48 days . Our results provide a detailed understanding of bacterial and microbial eukaryotic ecology within a decomposing corpse system and suggest that microbial community data can be developed into a forensic tool for estimating PMI . 
Despite tremendous body form diversity in nature , bilaterian animals share common sets of developmental genes that display conserved expression patterns in the embryo . Among them are the Hox genes , which define different identities along the anterior–posterior axis . Hox proteins exert their function by interaction with TALE transcription factors . Hox and TALE members are also present in some but not all non-bilaterian phyla , raising the question of how Hox–TALE interactions evolved to provide positional information . By using proteins from unicellular and multicellular lineages , we showed that these networks emerged from an ancestral generic motif present in Hox and other related protein families . Interestingly , Hox-TALE networks experienced additional and extensive molecular innovations that were likely crucial for differentiating Hox functions along body plans . Together our results highlight how homeobox gene families evolved during eukaryote evolution to eventually constit
Previous studies tracking AMPA receptor ( AMPAR ) diffusion at synapses observed a large mobile extrasynaptic AMPAR pool . Using super-resolution microscopy , we examined how fluorophore size and photostability affected AMPAR trafficking outside of , and within , post-synaptic densities ( PSDs ) from rats . Organic fluorescent dyes ( ≈4 nm ) , quantum dots , either small ( ≈10 nm diameter; sQDs ) or big ( >20 nm; bQDs ) , were coupled to AMPARs via different-sized linkers . We find that >90% of AMPARs labeled with fluorescent dyes or sQDs were diffusing in confined nanodomains in PSDs , which were stable for 15 min or longer . Less than 10% of sQD-AMPARs were extrasynaptic and highly mobile . In contrast , 5–10% of bQD-AMPARs were in PSDs and 90–95% were extrasynaptic as previously observed . Contrary to the hypothesis that AMPAR entry is limited by the occupancy of open PSD ‘slots’ , our findings suggest that AMPARs rapidly enter stable ‘nanodomains’ in PSDs with lifetime >15 min , an
The mechanism for the earliest response of central neurons to hypoxia—an increase in voltage-gated sodium current ( INa ) —has been unknown . Here , we show that hypoxia activates the Small Ubiquitin-like Modifier ( SUMO ) pathway in rat cerebellar granule neurons ( CGN ) and that SUMOylation of NaV1 . 2 channels increases INa . The time-course for SUMOylation of single NaV1 . 2 channels at the cell surface and changes in INa coincide , and both are prevented by mutation of NaV1 . 2-Lys38 or application of a deSUMOylating enzyme . Within 40 s , hypoxia-induced linkage of SUMO1 to the channels is complete , shifting the voltage-dependence of channel activation so that depolarizing steps evoke larger sodium currents . Given the recognized role of INa in hypoxic brain damage , the SUMO pathway and NaV1 . 2 are identified as potential targets for neuroprotective interventions . 
Thermal biology predicts that vector-borne disease transmission peaks at intermediate temperatures and declines at high and low temperatures . However , thermal optima and limits remain unknown for most vector-borne pathogens . We built a mechanistic model for the thermal response of Ross River virus , an important mosquito-borne pathogen in Australia , Pacific Islands , and potentially at risk of emerging worldwide . Transmission peaks at moderate temperatures ( 26 . 4°C ) and declines to zero at thermal limits ( 17 . 0 and 31 . 5°C ) . The model accurately predicts that transmission is year-round endemic in the tropics but seasonal in temperate areas , resulting in the nationwide seasonal peak in human cases . Climate warming will likely increase transmission in temperate areas ( where most Australians live ) but decrease transmission in tropical areas where mean temperatures are already near the thermal optimum . These results illustrate the importance of nonlinear models for inferr
Motor cortical beta oscillations have been reported for decades , yet their behavioral correlates remain unresolved . Some studies link beta oscillations to changes in underlying neural activity , but the specific behavioral manifestations of these reported changes remain elusive . To investigate how changes in population neural activity , beta oscillations , and behavior are linked , we recorded multi-scale neural activity from motor cortex while three macaques performed a novel neurofeedback task . Subjects volitionally brought their beta oscillatory power to an instructed state and subsequently executed an arm reach . Reaches preceded by a reduction in beta power exhibited significantly faster movement onset times than reaches preceded by an increase in beta power . Further , population neural activity was found to shift farther from a movement onset state during beta oscillations that were neurofeedback-induced or naturally occurring during reaching tasks . This finding establishes
TRAF2 is a component of TNF superfamily signalling complexes and plays an essential role in the regulation and homeostasis of immune cells . TRAF2 deficient mice die around birth , therefore its role in adult tissues is not well-explored . Furthermore , the role of the TRAF2 RING is controversial . It has been claimed that the atypical TRAF2 RING cannot function as a ubiquitin E3 ligase but counterclaimed that TRAF2 RING requires a co-factor , sphingosine-1-phosphate , that is generated by the enzyme sphingosine kinase 1 , to function as an E3 ligase . Keratinocyte-specific deletion of Traf2 , but not Sphk1 deficiency , disrupted TNF mediated NF-κB and MAP kinase signalling and caused epidermal hyperplasia and psoriatic skin inflammation . This inflammation was driven by TNF , cell death , non-canonical NF-κB and the adaptive immune system , and might therefore represent a clinically relevant model of psoriasis . TRAF2 therefore has essential tissue specific functions that do not overl
The exocytosis of synaptic vesicles ( SVs ) elicited by potent stimulation is rapidly compensated by bulk endocytosis of SV membranes leading to large endocytic vacuoles ( ‘bulk’ endosomes ) . Subsequently , these vacuoles disappear in parallel with the reappearance of new SVs . We have used synapses of dynamin 1 and 3 double knock-out neurons , where clathrin-mediated endocytosis ( CME ) is dramatically impaired , to gain insight into the poorly understood mechanisms underlying this process . Massive formation of bulk endosomes was not defective , but rather enhanced , in the absence of dynamin 1 and 3 . The subsequent conversion of bulk endosomes into SVs was not accompanied by the accumulation of clathrin coated buds on their surface and this process proceeded even after further clathrin knock-down , suggesting its independence of clathrin . These findings support the existence of a pathway for SV reformation that bypasses the requirement for clathrin and dynamin 1/3 and that operat
Glucocorticoids are among the most commonly prescribed drugs , but there is no biomarker that can quantify their action . The aim of the study was to identify and validate circulating biomarkers of glucocorticoid action . In a randomized , crossover , single-blind , discovery study , 10 subjects with primary adrenal insufficiency ( and no other endocrinopathies ) were admitted at the in-patient clinic and studied during physiological glucocorticoid exposure and withdrawal . A randomization plan before the first intervention was used . Besides mild physical and/or mental fatigue and salt craving , no serious adverse events were observed . The transcriptome in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and adipose tissue , plasma miRNAomic , and serum metabolomics were compared between the interventions using integrated multi-omic analysis . We identified a transcriptomic profile derived from two tissues and a multi-omic cluster , both predictive of glucocorticoid exposure . A microRNA ( miR-122
Amino acids are essential activators of mTORC1 via a complex containing RAG GTPases , RAGULATOR and the vacuolar ATPase . Sensing of amino acids causes translocation of mTORC1 to lysosomes , an obligate step for activation . To examine the spatial and temporal dynamics of this translocation , we used live imaging of the mTORC1 component RAPTOR and a cell permeant fluorescent analogue of di-leucine methyl ester . Translocation to lysosomes is a transient event , occurring within 2 min of aa addition and peaking within 5 min . It is temporally coupled with fluorescent leucine appearance in lysosomes and is sustained in comparison to aa stimulation . Sestrin2 and the vacuolar ATPase are negative and positive regulators of mTORC1 activity in our experimental system . Of note , phosphorylation of canonical mTORC1 targets is delayed compared to lysosomal translocation suggesting a dynamic and transient passage of mTORC1 from the lysosomal surface before targetting its substrates elsewhere . 
Antigen uptake by dendritic cells and intracellular routing of antigens to specific compartments is regulated by C-type lectin receptors that recognize glycan structures . We show that the modification of Ovalbumin ( OVA ) with the glycan-structure LewisX ( LeX ) re-directs OVA to the C-type lectin receptor MGL1 . LeX-modification of OVA favored Th1 skewing of CD4+ T cells and enhanced cross-priming of CD8+ T cells . While cross-presentation of native OVA requires high antigen dose and TLR stimuli , LeX modification reduces the required amount 100-fold and obviates its dependence on TLR signaling . The OVA-LeX-induced enhancement of T cell cross-priming is MGL1-dependent as shown by reduced CD8+ effector T cell frequencies in MGL1-deficient mice . Moreover , MGL1-mediated cross-presentation of OVA-LeX neither required TAP-transporters nor Cathepsin-S and was still observed after prolonged intracellular storage of antigen in Rab11+LAMP1+ compartments . We conclude that controlled neo-gl
Burkholderia thailandensis uses acyl-homoserine lactone-mediated quorum sensing systems to regulate hundreds of genes . Here we show that cell-cell contact-dependent type VI secretion ( T6S ) toxin-immunity systems are among those activated by quorum sensing in B . thailandensis . We also demonstrate that T6S is required to constrain proliferation of quorum sensing mutants in colony cocultures of a BtaR1 quorum-sensing signal receptor mutant and its parent . However , the BtaR1 mutant is not constrained by and outcompetes its parent in broth coculture , presumably because no cell contact occurs and there is a metabolic cost associated with quorum sensing gene activation . The increased fitness of the wild type over the BtaR1 mutant during agar surface growth is dependent on an intact T6SS-1 apparatus . Thus , quorum sensing activates B . thailandensis T6SS-1 growth inhibition and this control serves to police and constrain quorum-sensing mutants . This work defines a novel role for T6S
The long-range coupling within prefrontal-hippocampal networks that account for cognitive performance emerges early in life . The discontinuous hippocampal theta bursts have been proposed to drive the generation of neonatal prefrontal oscillations , yet the cellular substrate of these early interactions is still unresolved . Here , we selectively target optogenetic manipulation of glutamatergic projection neurons in the CA1 area of either dorsal or intermediate/ventral hippocampus at neonatal age to elucidate their contribution to the emergence of prefrontal oscillatory entrainment . We show that despite stronger theta and ripples power in dorsal hippocampus , the prefrontal cortex is mainly coupled with intermediate/ventral hippocampus by phase-locking of neuronal firing via dense direct axonal projections . Theta band-confined activation by light of pyramidal neurons in intermediate/ventral but not dorsal CA1 that were transfected by in utero electroporation with high-efficiency chan
Dynamic post-translational modification of RNA polymerase II ( RNAPII ) coordinates the co-transcriptional recruitment of enzymatic complexes that regulate chromatin states and processing of nascent RNA . Extensive phosphorylation of serine residues at the largest RNAPII subunit occurs at its structurally-disordered C-terminal domain ( CTD ) , which is composed of multiple heptapeptide repeats with consensus sequence Y1-S2-P3-T4-S5-P6-S7 . Serine-5 and Serine-7 phosphorylation mark transcription initiation , whereas Serine-2 phosphorylation coincides with productive elongation . In vertebrates , the CTD has eight non-canonical substitutions of Serine-7 into Lysine-7 , which can be acetylated ( K7ac ) . Here , we describe mono- and di-methylation of CTD Lysine-7 residues ( K7me1 and K7me2 ) . K7me1 and K7me2 are observed during the earliest transcription stages and precede or accompany Serine-5 and Serine-7 phosphorylation . In contrast , K7ac is associated with RNAPII elongation , Seri
Skeletal muscle satellite cells in their niche are quiescent and upon muscle injury , exit quiescence , proliferate to repair muscle tissue , and self-renew to replenish the satellite cell population . To understand the mechanisms involved in maintaining satellite cell quiescence , we identified gene transcripts that were differentially expressed during satellite cell activation following muscle injury . Transcripts encoding RNA binding proteins were among the most significantly changed and included the mRNA decay factor Tristetraprolin . Tristetraprolin promotes the decay of MyoD mRNA , which encodes a transcriptional regulator of myogenic commitment , via binding to the MyoD mRNA 3′ untranslated region . Upon satellite cell activation , p38α/β MAPK phosphorylates MAPKAP2 and inactivates Tristetraprolin , stabilizing MyoD mRNA . Satellite cell specific knockdown of Tristetraprolin precociously activates satellite cells in vivo , enabling MyoD accumulation , differentiation and cell fu
Infants with defects in the interleukin 10 receptor ( IL10R ) develop very early onset inflammatory bowel disease . Whether IL10R regulates lamina propria macrophage function during infant development in mice and whether macrophage-intrinsic IL10R signaling is required to prevent colitis in infancy is unknown . Here we show that although signs of colitis are absent in IL10R-deficient mice during the first two weeks of life , intestinal inflammation and macrophage dysfunction begin during the third week of life , concomitant with weaning and accompanying diversification of the intestinal microbiota . However , IL10R did not directly regulate the microbial ecology during infant development . Interestingly , macrophage depletion with clodronate inhibited the development of colitis , while the absence of IL10R specifically on macrophages sensitized infant mice to the development of colitis . These results indicate that IL10R-mediated regulation of macrophage function during the early postn
piRNAs play a critical role in the regulation of transposons and other germline genes . In Caenorhabditis elegans , regulation of piRNA target genes is mediated by the mutator complex , which synthesizes high levels of siRNAs through the activity of an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase . However , the steps between mRNA recognition by the piRNA pathway and siRNA amplification by the mutator complex are unknown . Here , we identify the Tudor domain protein , SIMR-1 , as acting downstream of piRNA production and upstream of mutator complex-dependent siRNA biogenesis . Interestingly , SIMR-1 also localizes to distinct subcellular foci adjacent to P granules and Mutator foci , two phase-separated condensates that are the sites of piRNA-dependent mRNA recognition and mutator complex-dependent siRNA amplification , respectively . Thus , our data suggests a role for multiple perinuclear condensates in organizing the piRNA pathway and promoting mRNA regulation by the mutator complex . 
Purkinje neurons are central to cerebellar function and show membrane bistability when recorded in vitro or in vivo under anesthesia . The existence of bistability in vivo in awake animals is disputed . Here , by recording intracellularly from Purkinje neurons in unanesthetized larval zebrafish ( Danio rerio ) , we unequivocally demonstrate bistability in these neurons . Tonic firing was seen in depolarized regimes and bursting at hyperpolarized membrane potentials . In addition , Purkinje neurons could switch from one state to another spontaneously or with current injection . While GABAAR or NMDAR were not required for bursting , activation of AMPARs by climbing fibers ( CFs ) was sufficient to trigger bursts . Further , by recording Purkinje neuron membrane potential intracellularly , and motor neuron spikes extracellularly , we show that initiation of motor neuron spiking is correlated with increased incidence of CF EPSPs and membrane depolarization . Developmentally , bistability w
Force generation by actin assembly shapes cellular membranes . An experimentally constrained multiscale model shows that a minimal branched actin network is sufficient to internalize endocytic pits against membrane tension . Around 200 activated Arp2/3 complexes are required for robust internalization . A newly developed molecule-counting method determined that ~200 Arp2/3 complexes assemble at sites of clathrin-mediated endocytosis in human cells . Simulations predict that actin self-organizes into a radial branched array with growing ends oriented toward the base of the pit . Long actin filaments bend between attachment sites in the coat and the base of the pit . Elastic energy stored in bent filaments , whose presence was confirmed by cryo-electron tomography , contributes to endocytic internalization . Elevated membrane tension directs more growing filaments toward the base of the pit , increasing actin nucleation and bending for increased force production . Thus , spatially constr
Macropinocytosis is a fundamental mechanism that allows cells to take up extracellular liquid into large vesicles . It critically depends on the formation of a ring of protrusive actin beneath the plasma membrane , which develops into the macropinocytic cup . We show that macropinocytic cups in Dictyostelium are organised around coincident intense patches of PIP3 , active Ras and active Rac . These signalling patches are invariably associated with a ring of active SCAR/WAVE at their periphery , as are all examined structures based on PIP3 patches , including phagocytic cups and basal waves . Patch formation does not depend on the enclosing F-actin ring , and patches become enlarged when the RasGAP NF1 is mutated , showing that Ras plays an instructive role . New macropinocytic cups predominantly form by splitting from existing ones . We propose that cup-shaped plasma membrane structures form from self-organizing patches of active Ras/PIP3 , which recruit a ring of actin nucleators to t
The cohesin ring holds newly replicated sister chromatids together until their separation at anaphase . Initiation of sister chromatid cohesion depends on a separate complex , Scc2NIPBL/Scc4Mau2 ( Scc2/4 ) , which loads cohesin onto DNA and determines its localization across the genome . Proper cohesin loading is essential for cell division , and partial defects cause chromosome missegregation and aberrant transcriptional regulation , leading to severe developmental defects in multicellular organisms . We present here a crystal structure showing the interaction between Scc2 and Scc4 . Scc4 is a TPR array that envelops an extended Scc2 peptide . Using budding yeast , we demonstrate that a conserved patch on the surface of Scc4 is required to recruit Scc2/4 to centromeres and to build pericentromeric cohesion . These findings reveal the role of Scc4 in determining the localization of cohesin loading and establish a molecular basis for Scc2/4 recruitment to centromeres . 
For hibernators , being born late in the active season may have important effects on growth and fattening , hence on winter survival and reproduction . This study investigated differences in growth , fattening , energetic responses , winter survival and fecundity between early-born ( ‘EB’ ) and late-born ( ‘LB’ ) juvenile garden dormice ( Eliomys quercinus ) . LB juveniles grew and gained mass twice as fast as EB individuals . Torpor use was low during intensive growth , that are , first weeks of body mass gain , but increased during pre-hibernation fattening . LB juveniles showed higher torpor use , reached similar body sizes but lower fat content than EB individuals before hibernation . Finally , LB individuals showed similar patterns of hibernation , but higher proportion of breeders during the following year than EB dormice . These results suggest that torpor is incompatible with growth but promotes fattening and consolidates pre-hibernation fat depots . In garden dormice , being b
ADAR proteins alter gene expression both by catalyzing adenosine ( A ) to inosine ( I ) RNA editing and binding to regulatory elements in target RNAs . Loss of ADARs affects neuronal function in all animals studied to date . Caenorhabditis elegans lacking ADARs exhibit reduced chemotaxis , but the targets responsible for this phenotype remain unknown . To identify critical neural ADAR targets in C . elegans , we performed an unbiased assessment of the effects of ADR-2 , the only A-to-I editing enzyme in C . elegans , on the neural transcriptome . Development and implementation of publicly available software , SAILOR , identified 7361 A-to-I editing events across the neural transcriptome . Intersecting the neural editome with adr-2 associated gene expression changes , revealed an edited mRNA , clec-41 , whose neural expression is dependent on deamination . Restoring clec-41 expression in adr-2 deficient neural cells rescued the chemotaxis defect , providing the first evidence that neuro
Host shutoff is a common strategy used by viruses to repress cellular mRNA translation and concomitantly allow the efficient translation of viral mRNAs . Here we use RNA-sequencing and ribosome profiling to explore the mechanisms that are being utilized by the Influenza A virus ( IAV ) to induce host shutoff . We show that viral transcripts are not preferentially translated and instead the decline in cellular protein synthesis is mediated by viral takeover on the mRNA pool . Our measurements also uncover strong variability in the levels of cellular transcripts reduction , revealing that short transcripts are less affected by IAV . Interestingly , these mRNAs that are refractory to IAV infection are enriched in cell maintenance processes such as oxidative phosphorylation . Furthermore , we show that the continuous oxidative phosphorylation activity is important for viral propagation . Our results advance our understanding of IAV-induced shutoff , and suggest a mechanism that facilitates
Gradients of signaling proteins are essential for inducing tissue morphogenesis . However , mechanisms of gradient formation remain controversial . Here we characterized the distribution of fluorescently-tagged signaling proteins , FGF and FGFR , expressed at physiological levels from the genomic knock-in alleles in Drosophila . FGF produced in the larval wing imaginal-disc moves to the air-sac-primordium ( ASP ) through FGFR-containing cytonemes that extend from the ASP to contact the wing-disc source . The number of FGF-receiving cytonemes extended by ASP cells decreases gradually with increasing distance from the source , generating a recipient-specific FGF gradient . Acting as a morphogen in the ASP , FGF activates concentration-dependent gene expression , inducing pointed-P1 at higher and cut at lower levels . The transcription-factors Pointed-P1 and Cut antagonize each other and differentially regulate formation of FGFR-containing cytonemes , creating regions with higher-to-lower
Coiled coils are the best-understood protein fold , as their backbone structure can uniquely be described by parametric equations . This level of understanding has allowed their manipulation in unprecedented detail . They do not seem a likely source of surprises , yet we describe here the unexpected formation of a new type of fiber by the simple insertion of two or six residues into the underlying heptad repeat of a parallel , trimeric coiled coil . These insertions strain the supercoil to the breaking point , causing the local formation of short β-strands , which move the path of the chain by 120° around the trimer axis . The result is an α/β coiled coil , which retains only one backbone hydrogen bond per repeat unit from the parent coiled coil . Our results show that a substantially novel backbone structure is possible within the allowed regions of the Ramachandran space with only minor mutations to a known fold . 
Epsin is an evolutionarily conserved endocytic clathrin adaptor whose most critical function ( s ) in clathrin coat dynamics remain ( s ) elusive . To elucidate such function ( s ) , we generated embryonic fibroblasts from conditional epsin triple KO mice . Triple KO cells displayed a dramatic cell division defect . Additionally , a robust impairment in clathrin-mediated endocytosis was observed , with an accumulation of early and U-shaped pits . This defect correlated with a perturbation of the coupling between the clathrin coat and the actin cytoskeleton , which we confirmed in a cell-free assay of endocytosis . Our results indicate that a key evolutionary conserved function of epsin , in addition to other roles that include , as we show here , a low affinity interaction with SNAREs , is to help generate the force that leads to invagination and then fission of clathrin-coated pits . 
Data on asthma aetiology in Africa are scarce . We investigated the risk factors for asthma among schoolchildren ( 5–17 years ) in urban Uganda . We conducted a case-control study , among 555 cases and 1115 controls . Asthma was diagnosed by study clinicians . The main risk factors for asthma were tertiary education for fathers ( adjusted OR ( 95% CI ) ; 2 . 32 ( 1 . 71–3 . 16 ) ) and mothers ( 1 . 85 ( 1 . 38–2 . 48 ) ) ; area of residence at birth , with children born in a small town or in the city having an increased asthma risk compared to schoolchildren born in rural areas ( 2 . 16 ( 1 . 60–2 . 92 ) ) and ( 2 . 79 ( 1 . 79–4 . 35 ) ) , respectively; father’s and mother’s history of asthma; children’s own allergic conditions; atopy; and cooking on gas/electricity . In conclusion , asthma was associated with a strong rural-town-city risk gradient , higher parental socio-economic status and urbanicity . This work provides the basis for future studies to identify specific environmenta
Interactions between all three pigment cell types are required to form the stripe pattern of adult zebrafish ( Danio rerio ) , but their molecular nature is poorly understood . Mutations in leopard ( leo ) , encoding Connexin 41 . 8 ( Cx41 . 8 ) , a gap junction subunit , cause a phenotypic series of spotted patterns . A new dominant allele , leotK3 , leads to a complete loss of the pattern , suggesting a dominant negative impact on another component of gap junctions . In a genetic screen , we identified this component as Cx39 . 4 ( luchs ) . Loss-of-function alleles demonstrate that luchs is required for stripe formation in zebrafish; however , the fins are almost not affected . Double mutants and chimeras , which show that leo and luchs are only required in xanthophores and melanophores , but not in iridophores , suggest that both connexins form heteromeric gap junctions . The phenotypes indicate that these promote homotypic interactions between melanophores and xanthophores , respec
The olfactory sense detects a plethora of behaviorally relevant odor molecules; gene families involved in olfaction exhibit high diversity in different animal phyla . Insects detect volatile molecules using olfactory ( OR ) or ionotropic receptors ( IR ) and in some cases gustatory receptors ( GRs ) . While IRs are expressed in olfactory organs across Protostomia , ORs have been hypothesized to be an adaptation to a terrestrial insect lifestyle . We investigated the olfactory system of the primary wingless bristletail Lepismachilis y-signata ( Archaeognatha ) , the firebrat Thermobia domestica ( Zygentoma ) and the neopteran leaf insect Phyllium siccifolium ( Phasmatodea ) . ORs and the olfactory coreceptor ( Orco ) are with very high probability lacking in Lepismachilis; in Thermobia we have identified three Orco candidates , and in Phyllium a fully developed OR/Orco-based system . We suggest that ORs did not arise as an adaptation to a terrestrial lifestyle , but evolved later in ins
The global malaria burden has decreased over the last decade and many nations are attempting elimination . Asymptomatic malaria infections are not normally diagnosed or treated , posing a major hurdle for elimination efforts . One solution to this problem is mass drug administration ( MDA ) , with success depending on adequate population participation . Here , we present a detailed spatial and temporal analysis of malaria episodes and asymptomatic infections in four villages undergoing MDA in Myanmar . In this study , individuals from neighborhoods with low MDA adherence had 2 . 85 times the odds of having a malaria episode post-MDA in comparison to those from high adherence neighborhoods , regardless of individual participation , suggesting a herd effect . High mosquito biting rates , living in a house with someone else with malaria , or having an asymptomatic malaria infection were also predictors of clinical episodes . Spatial clustering of non-adherence to MDA , even in villages wi
Divergent morphology of species has largely been ascribed to genetic differences in the tissue-specific expression of proteins , which could be achieved by divergence in cis-regulatory elements or by altering the binding specificity of transcription factors ( TFs ) . The relative importance of the latter has been difficult to assess , as previous systematic analyses of TF binding specificity have been performed using different methods in different species . To address this , we determined the binding specificities of 242 Drosophila TFs , and compared them to human and mouse data . This analysis revealed that TF binding specificities are highly conserved between Drosophila and mammals , and that for orthologous TFs , the similarity extends even to the level of very subtle dinucleotide binding preferences . The few human TFs with divergent specificities function in cell types not found in fruit flies , suggesting that evolution of TF specificities contributes to emergence of novel types 
The extensive crosstalk between the developing heart and lung is critical to their proper morphogenesis and maturation . However , there remains a lack of models that investigate the critical cardio-pulmonary mutual interaction during human embryogenesis . Here , we reported a novel stepwise strategy for directing the simultaneous induction of both mesoderm-derived cardiac and endoderm-derived lung epithelial lineages within a single differentiation of human-induced pluripotent stem cells ( hiPSCs ) via temporal specific tuning of WNT and nodal signaling in the absence of exogenous growth factors . Using 3D suspension culture , we established concentric cardio-pulmonary micro-Tissues ( μTs ) , and expedited alveolar maturation in the presence of cardiac accompaniment . Upon withdrawal of WNT agonist , the cardiac and pulmonary components within each dual-lineage μT effectively segregated from each other with concurrent initiation of cardiac contraction . We expect that our multilineage
While specific mutations allow organisms to adapt to stressful environments , most changes in an organism's DNA negatively impact fitness . The mutation rate is therefore strictly regulated and often considered a slowly-evolving parameter . In contrast , we demonstrate an unexpected flexibility in cellular mutation rates as a response to changes in selective pressure . We show that hypermutation independently evolves when different Escherichia coli cultures adapt to high ethanol stress . Furthermore , hypermutator states are transitory and repeatedly alternate with decreases in mutation rate . Specifically , population mutation rates rise when cells experience higher stress and decline again once cells are adapted . Interestingly , we identified cellular mortality as the major force driving the quick evolution of mutation rates . Together , these findings show how organisms balance robustness and evolvability and help explain the prevalence of hypermutation in various settings , rangin
Metabolic adjustment to changing environmental conditions , particularly balancing of growth and defense responses , is crucial for all organisms to survive . The evolutionary conserved AMPK/Snf1/SnRK1 kinases are well-known metabolic master regulators in the low-energy response in animals , yeast and plants . They act at two different levels: by modulating the activity of key metabolic enzymes , and by massive transcriptional reprogramming . While the first part is well established , the latter function is only partially understood in animals and not at all in plants . Here we identified the Arabidopsis transcription factor bZIP63 as key regulator of the starvation response and direct target of the SnRK1 kinase . Phosphorylation of bZIP63 by SnRK1 changed its dimerization preference , thereby affecting target gene expression and ultimately primary metabolism . A bzip63 knock-out mutant exhibited starvation-related phenotypes , which could be functionally complemented by wild type bZIP
Synapses and nuclei are connected by bidirectional communication mechanisms that enable information transfer encoded by macromolecules . Here , we identified RNF10 as a novel synaptonuclear protein messenger . RNF10 is activated by calcium signals at the postsynaptic compartment and elicits discrete changes at the transcriptional level . RNF10 is enriched at the excitatory synapse where it associates with the GluN2A subunit of NMDA receptors ( NMDARs ) . Activation of synaptic GluN2A-containing NMDARs and induction of long term potentiation ( LTP ) lead to the translocation of RNF10 from dendritic segments and dendritic spines to the nucleus . In particular , we provide evidence for importin-dependent long-distance transport from synapto-dendritic compartments to the nucleus . Notably , RNF10 silencing prevents the maintenance of LTP as well as LTP-dependent structural modifications of dendritic spines . 
Swi2/Snf2 ATPases remodel substrates such as nucleosomes and transcription complexes to control a wide range of DNA-associated processes , but detailed structural information on the ATP-dependent remodeling reactions is largely absent . The single subunit remodeler Mot1 ( modifier of transcription 1 ) dissociates TATA box-binding protein ( TBP ) :DNA complexes , offering a useful system to address the structural mechanisms of Swi2/Snf2 ATPases . Here , we report the crystal structure of the N-terminal domain of Mot1 in complex with TBP , DNA , and the transcription regulator negative cofactor 2 ( NC2 ) . Our data show that Mot1 reduces DNA:NC2 interactions and unbends DNA as compared to the TBP:DNA:NC2 state , suggesting that Mot1 primes TBP:NC2 displacement in an ATP-independent manner . Electron microscopy and cross-linking data suggest that the Swi2/Snf2 domain of Mot1 associates with the upstream DNA and the histone fold of NC2 , thereby revealing parallels to some nucleosome remod
Cyclic peptide natural products have evolved to exploit diverse protein targets , many of which control essential cellular processes . Inspired by a series of cyclic peptides with partially elucidated structures , we designed synthetic variants of ternatin , a cytotoxic and anti-adipogenic natural product whose molecular mode of action was unknown . The new ternatin variants are cytotoxic toward cancer cells , with up to 500-fold greater potency than ternatin itself . Using a ternatin photo-affinity probe , we identify the translation elongation factor-1A ternary complex ( eEF1A·GTP·aminoacyl-tRNA ) as a specific target and demonstrate competitive binding by the unrelated natural products , didemnin and cytotrienin . Mutations in domain III of eEF1A prevent ternatin binding and confer resistance to its cytotoxic effects , implicating the adjacent hydrophobic surface as a functional hot spot for eEF1A modulation . We conclude that the eukaryotic elongation factor-1A and its ternary comp
Mutations in the inositol 5-phosphatase OCRL cause Lowe syndrome and Dent's disease . Although OCRL , a direct clathrin interactor , is recruited to late-stage clathrin-coated pits , clinical manifestations have been primarily attributed to intracellular sorting defects . Here we show that OCRL loss in Lowe syndrome patient fibroblasts impacts clathrin-mediated endocytosis and results in an endocytic defect . These cells exhibit an accumulation of clathrin-coated vesicles and an increase in U-shaped clathrin-coated pits , which may result from sequestration of coat components on uncoated vesicles . Endocytic vesicles that fail to lose their coat nucleate the majority of the numerous actin comets present in patient cells . SNX9 , an adaptor that couples late-stage endocytic coated pits to actin polymerization and which we found to bind OCRL directly , remains associated with such vesicles . These results indicate that OCRL acts as an uncoating factor and that defects in clathrin-mediate
Aberrant activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling plays an unequivocal role in colorectal cancer , but identification of effective Wnt inhibitors for use in cancer remains a tremendous challenge . New insights into the regulation of this pathway could reveal new therapeutic point of intervention , therefore are greatly needed . Here we report a novel FAK/PYK2/GSK3βY216/β-catenin regulation axis: FAK and PYK2 , elevated in adenomas in APCmin/+ mice and in human colorectal cancer tissues , functioned redundantly to promote the Wnt/β-catenin pathway by phosphorylating GSK3βY216 to reinforce pathway output—β-catenin accumulation and intestinal tumorigenesis . We previously showed that Wnt-induced β-catenin accumulation requires Wnt-induced GSK3β/β-TrCP interaction; the current study revealed that phosphorylation of GSK3βY216 was a molecular determinant of GSK3β recruitment of β-TrCP . Pharmacological inhibition of FAK/PYK2 suppressed adenoma formation in APCmin/+ mice accompanied with reduced
The neural control of transition between posture and movement encompasses the regulation of reflex-stabilizing mechanisms to enable motion . Optimal feedback theory suggests that such transitions require the disengagement of one motor control policy before the implementation of another . To test this possibility , we investigated the continuity of the vestibular control of balance during transitions between quiet standing and locomotion and between two standing postures . Healthy subjects initiated and terminated locomotion or shifted the distribution of their weight between their feet , while exposed to electrical vestibular stimuli ( EVS ) . The relationship between EVS and ground reaction forces was quantified using time-frequency analyses . Discontinuities corresponding to null coherence periods were observed preceding the onset of movement initiation and during the step preceding locomotion termination . These results show humans interrupt the vestibular balance stabilizing mechan
The transcription factor RpaA is the master regulator of circadian transcription in cyanobacteria , driving genome-wide oscillations in mRNA abundance . Deletion of rpaA has no effect on viability in constant light conditions , but renders cells inviable in cycling conditions when light and dark periods alternate . We investigated the mechanisms underlying this viability defect , and demonstrate that the rpaA- strain cannot maintain appropriate energy status at night , does not accumulate carbon reserves during the day , and is defective in transcription of genes crucial for utilization of carbohydrate stores at night . Reconstruction of carbon utilization pathways combined with provision of an external carbon source restores energy charge and viability of the rpaA- strain in light/dark cycling conditions . Our observations highlight how a circadian output pathway controls and temporally coordinates essential pathways in carbon metabolism to maximize fitness of cells facing periodic en
Transition metals , such as zinc , are essential micronutrients in all organisms , but also highly toxic in excessive amounts . Heavy-metal transporting P-type ( PIB ) ATPases are crucial for homeostasis , conferring cellular detoxification and redistribution through transport of these ions across cellular membranes . No structural information is available for the PIB-4-ATPases , the subclass with the broadest cargo scope , and hence even their topology remains elusive . Here , we present structures and complementary functional analyses of an archetypal PIB-4-ATPase , sCoaT from Sulfitobacter sp . NAS14-1 . The data disclose the architecture , devoid of classical so-called heavy-metal-binding domains ( HMBDs ) , and provide fundamentally new insights into the mechanism and diversity of heavy-metal transporters . We reveal several novel P-type ATPase features , including a dual role in heavy-metal release and as an internal counter ion of an invariant histidine . We also establish that 
In mammals , numerous autosomal genes are subject to mitotically stable monoallelic expression ( MAE ) , including genes that play critical roles in a variety of human diseases . Due to challenges posed by the clonal nature of MAE , very little is known about its regulation; in particular , no molecular features have been specifically linked to MAE . In this study , we report an approach that distinguishes MAE genes in human cells with great accuracy: a chromatin signature consisting of chromatin marks associated with active transcription ( H3K36me3 ) and silencing ( H3K27me3 ) simultaneously occurring in the gene body . The MAE signature is present in ∼20% of ubiquitously expressed genes and over 30% of tissue-specific genes across cell types . Notably , it is enriched among key developmental genes that have bivalent chromatin structure in pluripotent cells . Our results open a new approach to the study of MAE that is independent of polymorphisms , and suggest that MAE is linked to ce
Ring-forming AAA+ chaperones exert ATP-fueled substrate unfolding by threading through a central pore . This activity is potentially harmful requiring mechanisms for tight repression and substrate-specific activation . The AAA+ chaperone ClpC with the peptidase ClpP forms a bacterial protease essential to virulence and stress resistance . The adaptor MecA activates ClpC by targeting substrates and stimulating ClpC ATPase activity . We show how ClpC is repressed in its ground state by determining ClpC cryo-EM structures with and without MecA . ClpC forms large two-helical assemblies that associate via head-to-head contacts between coiled-coil middle domains ( MDs ) . MecA converts this resting state to an active planar ring structure by binding to MD interaction sites . Loss of ClpC repression in MD mutants causes constitutive activation and severe cellular toxicity . These findings unravel an unexpected regulatory concept executed by coiled-coil MDs to tightly control AAA+ chaperone ac
How stem cells specified during development keep their non-differentiated quiescent state , and how they are reactivated , remain poorly understood . Here , we applied a Drosophila model to follow in vivo behavior of adult muscle precursors ( AMPs ) , the transient fruit fly muscle stem cells . We report that emerging AMPs send out thin filopodia that make contact with neighboring muscles . AMPs keep their filopodia-based association with muscles throughout their dormant state but also when they start to proliferate , suggesting that muscles could play a role in AMP reactivation . Indeed , our genetic analyses indicate that muscles send inductive dIlp6 signals that switch the Insulin pathway ON in closely associated AMPs . This leads to the activation of Notch , which regulates AMP proliferation via dMyc . Altogether , we report that Drosophila AMPs display homing behavior to muscle niche and that the niche-driven Insulin-Notch-dMyc cascade plays a key role in setting the activated sta
Certain neuron types fire spontaneously at high rates , an ability that is crucial for their function in brain circuits . The spontaneously active GABAergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars reticulata ( SNr ) , a major output of the basal ganglia , provide tonic inhibition of downstream brain areas . A depolarizing 'leak' current supports this firing pattern , but its molecular basis remains poorly understood . To understand how SNr neurons maintain tonic activity , we used single-cell RNA sequencing to determine the transcriptome of individual mouse SNr neurons . We discovered that SNr neurons express the sodium leak channel , NALCN , and that SNr neurons lacking NALCN have impaired spontaneous firing . In addition , NALCN is involved in the modulation of excitability by changes in glycolysis and by activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors . Our findings suggest that disruption of NALCN could impair the basal ganglia circuit , which may underlie the severe motor deficits i
Antibiotics from few culturable microorganisms have saved millions of lives since the 20th century . But with resistance formation , these compounds become increasingly ineffective , while the majority of microbial and with that chemical compound diversity remains inaccessible for cultivation and exploration . Culturing recalcitrant bacteria is a stochastic process . But conventional methods are limited to low throughput . By increasing ( i ) throughput and ( ii ) sensitivity by miniaturization , we innovate microbiological cultivation to comply with biological stochasticity . Here , we introduce a droplet-based microscale cultivation system , which is directly coupled to a high-throughput screening for antimicrobial activity prior to strain isolation . We demonstrate that highly parallelized in-droplet cultivation starting from single cells results in the cultivation of yet uncultured species and a significantly higher bacterial diversity than standard agar plate cultivation . Strains
Tuberculous meningitis has high mortality , linked to excessive inflammation . However , adjunctive anti-inflammatory corticosteroids reduce mortality by only 30% , suggesting that inflammatory pathophysiology causes only a subset of deaths . In Vietnam , the survival benefit of anti-inflammatory corticosteroids was most pronounced in patients with a C/T promoter variant in the leukotriene A4 hydrolase ( LTA4H ) gene encoding an enzyme that regulates inflammatory eicosanoids . LTA4H TT patients with increased expression had increased survival , consistent with corticosteroids benefiting individuals with hyper-inflammatory responses . However , an Indonesia study did not find an LTA4H TT genotype survival benefit . Here using Bayesian methods to analyse both studies , we find that LTA4H TT genotype confers survival benefit that begins early and continues long-term in both populations . This benefit is nullified in the most severe cases with high early mortality . LTA4H genotyping togeth
Growth cones navigate axonal projection in response to guidance cues . However , it is unclear how they can decide the migratory direction by transducing the local spatial cues into protrusive forces . Here we show that knockout mice of Shootin1 display abnormal projection of the forebrain commissural axons , a phenotype similar to that of the axon guidance molecule netrin-1 . Shallow gradients of netrin-1 elicited highly polarized Pak1-mediated phosphorylation of shootin1 within growth cones . We demonstrate that netrin-1–elicited shootin1 phosphorylation increases shootin1 interaction with the cell adhesion molecule L1-CAM; this , in turn , promotes F-actin–adhesion coupling and concomitant generation of forces for growth cone migration . Moreover , the spatially regulated shootin1 phosphorylation within growth cones is required for axon turning induced by netrin-1 gradients . Our study defines a mechano-effector for netrin-1 signaling and demonstrates that shootin1 phosphorylation i
How hummingbirds hum is not fully understood , but its biophysical origin is encoded in the acoustic nearfield . Hence , we studied six freely hovering Anna’s hummingbirds , performing acoustic nearfield holography using a 2176 microphone array in vivo , while also directly measuring the 3D aerodynamic forces using a new aerodynamic force platform . We corroborate the acoustic measurements by developing an idealized acoustic model that integrates the aerodynamic forces with wing kinematics , which shows how the timbre of the hummingbird’s hum arises from the oscillating lift and drag forces on each wing . Comparing birds and insects , we find that the characteristic humming timbre and radiated power of their flapping wings originates from the higher harmonics in the aerodynamic forces that support their bodyweight . Our model analysis across insects and birds shows that allometric deviation makes larger birds quieter and elongated flies louder , while also clarifying complex bioacousti
The roles of chance , contingency , and necessity in evolution are unresolved because they have never been assessed in a single system or on timescales relevant to historical evolution . We combined ancestral protein reconstruction and a new continuous evolution technology to mutate and select proteins in the B-cell lymphoma-2 ( BCL-2 ) family to acquire protein–protein interaction specificities that occurred during animal evolution . By replicating evolutionary trajectories from multiple ancestral proteins , we found that contingency generated over long historical timescales steadily erased necessity and overwhelmed chance as the primary cause of acquired sequence variation; trajectories launched from phylogenetically distant proteins yielded virtually no common mutations , even under strong and identical selection pressures . Chance arose because many sets of mutations could alter specificity at any timepoint; contingency arose because historical substitutions changed these sets . Ou
Similarity between two individuals in the combination of genetic markers along their chromosomes indicates shared ancestry and can be used to identify historical connections between different population groups due to admixture . We use a genome-wide , haplotype-based , analysis to characterise the structure of genetic diversity and gene-flow in a collection of 48 sub-Saharan African groups . We show that coastal populations experienced an influx of Eurasian haplotypes over the last 7000 years , and that Eastern and Southern Niger-Congo speaking groups share ancestry with Central West Africans as a result of recent population expansions . In fact , most sub-Saharan populations share ancestry with groups from outside of their current geographic region as a result of gene-flow within the last 4000 years . Our in-depth analysis provides insight into haplotype sharing across different ethno-linguistic groups and the recent movement of alleles into new environments , both of which are releva
Early development of many animals is characterized by rapid cleavages that dramatically decrease cell size , but how the mitotic spindle adapts to changing cell dimensions is not understood . To identify mechanisms that scale the spindle during Xenopus laevis embryogenesis , we established an in vitro system using cytoplasmic extracts prepared from embryos that recapitulates in vivo spindle size differences between stage 3 ( 4 cells , 37 µm ) and stage 8 ( ∼4000 cells , 18 µm ) . We identified the kinesin-13 kif2a as a driver of developmental spindle scaling whose microtubule-destabilizing activity is inhibited in stage 3 spindles by the transport receptor importin α , and activated in stage 8 when importin α partitions to a membrane pool . Altering spindle size in developing embryos impaired spindle orientation during metaphase , but chromosome segregation remained robust . Thus , spindle size in Xenopus development is coupled to cell size through a ratiometric mechanism controlling m
Gene control systems sometimes interpret multiple signals to set the expression levels of the genes they regulate . In rare instances , ligand-binding riboswitch aptamers form tandem arrangements to approximate the function of specific two-input Boolean logic gates . Here , we report the discovery of riboswitch aptamers for phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate ( PRPP ) that naturally exist either in singlet arrangements , or occur in tandem with guanine aptamers . Tandem guanine-PRPP aptamers can bind the target ligands , either independently or in combination , to approximate the function expected for an IMPLY Boolean logic gate to regulate transcription of messenger RNAs for de novo purine biosynthesis in bacteria . The existence of sophisticated all-RNA regulatory systems that sense two ancient ribonucleotide derivatives to control synthesis of RNA molecules supports the hypothesis that RNA World organisms could have managed a complex metabolic state without the assistance of protein regula
The number of neurotransmitter-filled vesicles released into the synaptic cleft with each action potential dictates the reliability of synaptic transmission . Variability of this fundamental property provides diversity of synaptic function across brain regions , but the source of this variability is unclear . The prevailing view is that release of a single ( univesicular release , UVR ) or multiple vesicles ( multivesicular release , MVR ) reflects variability in vesicle release probability , a notion that is well-supported by the calcium-dependence of release mode . However , using mouse brain slices , we now demonstrate that the number of vesicles released is regulated by the size of the readily-releasable pool , upstream of vesicle release probability . Our results point to a model wherein protein kinase A and its vesicle-associated target , synapsin , dynamically control release site occupancy to dictate the number of vesicles released without altering release probability . Togethe
HIV-1 Gag selects and packages a dimeric , unspliced viral RNA in the context of a large excess of cytosolic human RNAs . As Gag assembles on the plasma membrane , the HIV-1 genome is enriched relative to cellular RNAs by an unknown mechanism . We used a minimal system consisting of purified RNAs , recombinant HIV-1 Gag and giant unilamellar vesicles to recapitulate the selective packaging of the 5’ untranslated region of the HIV-1 genome in the presence of excess competitor RNA . Mutations in the CA-CTD domain of Gag which subtly affect the self-assembly of Gag abrogated RNA selectivity . We further found that tRNA suppresses Gag membrane binding less when Gag has bound viral RNA . The ability of HIV-1 Gag to selectively package its RNA genome and its self-assembly on membranes are thus interdependent on one another . 
