Gene expression varies widely between individuals of a population , and regulatory change can underlie phenotypes of evolutionary and biomedical relevance . A key question in the field is how DNA sequence variants impact gene expression , with most mechanistic studies to date focused on the effects of genetic change on regulatory regions upstream of protein-coding sequence . By contrast , the role of RNA 3′-end processing in regulatory variation remains largely unknown , owing in part to the challenge of identifying functional elements in 3′ untranslated regions . In this work , we conducted a genomic survey of transcript ends in lymphoblastoid cells from genetically distinct human individuals . Our analysis mapped the cis-regulatory architecture of 3′ gene ends , finding that transcript end positions did not fall randomly in untranslated regions , but rather preferentially flanked the locations of 3′ regulatory elements , including miRNA sites . The usage of these transcript length fo
The live attenuated simian immunodeficiency virus ( LASIV ) vaccine SIVΔnef is one of the most effective vaccines in inducing protection against wild-type lentiviral challenge , yet little is known about the mechanisms underlying its remarkable protective efficacy . Here , we exploit deep sequencing technology and comprehensive CD8 T cell epitope mapping to deconstruct the CD8 T cell response , to identify the regions of immune pressure and viral escape , and to delineate the effect of epitope escape on the evolution of the CD8 T cell response in SIVΔnef-vaccinated animals . We demonstrate that the initial CD8 T cell response in the acute phase of SIVΔnef infection is mounted predominantly against more variable epitopes , followed by widespread sequence evolution and viral escape . Furthermore , we show that epitope escape expands the CD8 T cell repertoire that targets highly conserved epitopes , defined as anentropic specificity , and generates de novo responses to the escaped epitope
Mucosal infections with Candida albicans belong to the most frequent forms of fungal diseases . Host protection is conferred by cellular immunity; however , the induction of antifungal immunity is not well understood . Using a mouse model of oropharyngeal candidiasis ( OPC ) we show that interleukin-1 receptor ( IL-1R ) signaling is critical for fungal control at the onset of infection through its impact on neutrophils at two levels . We demonstrate that both the recruitment of circulating neutrophils to the site of infection and the mobilization of newly generated neutrophils from the bone marrow depended on IL-1R . Consistently , IL-1R-deficient mice displayed impaired chemokine production at the site of infection and defective secretion of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( G-CSF ) in the circulation in response to C . albicans . Strikingly , endothelial cells were identified as the primary cellular source of G-CSF during OPC , which responded to IL-1α that was released from ke
Between 2000–2007 , the Global Programme to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis ( GPELF ) delivered more than 1 . 9 billion treatments to nearly 600 million individuals via annual mass drug administration ( MDA ) of anti-filarial drugs ( albendazole , ivermectin , diethylcarbamazine ) to all at-risk for 4–6 years . Quantifying the resulting economic benefits of this significant achievement is important not only to justify the resources invested in the GPELF but also to more fully understand the Programme's overall impact on some of the poorest endemic populations . To calculate the economic benefits , the number of clinical manifestations averted was first quantified and the savings associated with this disease prevention then analyzed in the context of direct treatment costs , indirect costs of lost-labor , and costs to the health system to care for affected individuals . Multiple data sources were reviewed , including published literature and databases from the World Health Organization ,
Homozygous mutations in the glucocerebrosidase ( GBA ) gene result in Gaucher disease ( GD ) , the most common lysosomal storage disease . Recent genetic studies have revealed that GBA mutations confer a strong risk for sporadic Parkinson’s disease ( PD ) . To investigate how GBA mutations cause PD , we generated GBA nonsense mutant ( GBA-/- ) medaka that are completely deficient in glucocerebrosidase ( GCase ) activity . In contrast to the perinatal death in humans and mice lacking GCase activity , GBA-/- medaka survived for months , enabling analysis of the pathological progression . GBA-/- medaka displayed the pathological phenotypes resembling human neuronopathic GD including infiltration of Gaucher cell-like cells into the brains , progressive neuronal loss , and microgliosis . Detailed pathological findings represented lysosomal abnormalities in neurons and alpha-synuclein ( α-syn ) accumulation in axonal swellings containing autophagosomes . Unexpectedly , disruption of α-syn di
Listeria monocytogenes is a facultative intracellular pathogen capable of inducing a robust cell-mediated immune response to sub-lethal infection . The capacity of L . monocytogenes to escape from the phagosome and enter the host cell cytosol is paramount for the induction of long-lived CD8 T cell–mediated protective immunity . Here , we show that the impaired T cell response to L . monocytogenes confined within a phagosome is not merely a consequence of inefficient antigen presentation , but is the result of direct suppression of the adaptive response . This suppression limited not only the adaptive response to vacuole-confined L . monocytogenes , but negated the response to bacteria within the cytosol . Co-infection with phagosome-confined and cytosolic L . monocytogenes prevented the generation of acquired immunity and limited expansion of antigen-specific T cells relative to the cytosolic L . monocytogenes strain alone . Bacteria confined to a phagosome suppressed the production of
Glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness worldwide . Primary open-angle glaucoma ( POAG ) is the most common subtype and is a complex trait with multigenic inheritance . Genome-wide association studies have previously identified a significant association between POAG and the SIX6 locus ( rs10483727 , odds ratio ( OR ) = 1 . 32 , p = 3 . 87×10−11 ) . SIX6 plays a role in ocular development and has been associated with the morphology of the optic nerve . We sequenced the SIX6 coding and regulatory regions in 262 POAG cases and 256 controls and identified six nonsynonymous coding variants , including five rare and one common variant , Asn141His ( rs33912345 ) , which was associated significantly with POAG ( OR = 1 . 27 , p = 4 . 2×10−10 ) in the NEIGHBOR/GLAUGEN datasets . These variants were tested in an in vivo Danio rerio ( zebrafish ) complementation assay to evaluate ocular metrics such as eye size and optic nerve structure . Five variants , found primarily in POAG cases , were hypom
In the human intestinal pathogen Clostridium difficile , flagella promote adherence to intestinal epithelial cells . Flagellar gene expression also indirectly impacts production of the glucosylating toxins , which are essential to diarrheal disease development . Thus , factors that regulate the expression of the flgB operon will likely impact toxin production in addition to flagellar motility . Here , we report the identification a “flagellar switch” that controls the phase variable production of flagella and glucosylating toxins . The flagellar switch , located upstream of the flgB operon containing the early stage flagellar genes , is a 154 bp invertible sequence flanked by 21 bp inverted repeats . Bacteria with the sequence in one orientation expressed flagellum and toxin genes , produced flagella , and secreted the toxins ( “flg phase ON” ) . Bacteria with the sequence in the inverse orientation were attenuated for flagellar and toxin gene expression , were aflagellate , and showed
Endosporulation is an ancient bacterial developmental program that culminates with the differentiation of a highly resistant endospore . In the model organism Bacillus subtilis , gene expression in the forespore and in the mother cell , the two cells that participate in endospore development , is governed by cell type-specific RNA polymerase sigma subunits . σF in the forespore , and σE in the mother cell control early stages of development and are replaced , at later stages , by σG and σK , respectively . Starting with σF , the activation of the sigma factors is sequential , requires the preceding factor , and involves cell-cell signaling pathways that operate at key morphological stages . Here , we have studied the function and regulation of the sporulation sigma factors in the intestinal pathogen Clostridium difficile , an obligate anaerobe in which the endospores are central to the infectious cycle . The morphological characterization of mutants for the sporulation sigma factors , 
We explore a framework to model the dose response of allosteric multisite phosphorylation proteins using a single auxiliary variable . This reduction can closely replicate the steady state behavior of detailed multisite systems such as the Monod-Wyman-Changeux allosteric model or rule-based models . Optimal ultrasensitivity is obtained when the activation of an allosteric protein by its individual sites is concerted and redundant . The reduction makes this framework useful for modeling and analyzing biochemical systems in practical applications , where several multisite proteins may interact simultaneously . As an application we analyze a newly discovered checkpoint signaling pathway in budding yeast , which has been proposed to measure cell growth by monitoring signals generated at sites of plasma membrane growth . We show that the known components of this pathway can form a robust hysteretic switch . In particular , this system incorporates a signal proportional to bud growth or size
Quorum sensing ( QS ) enables bacterial multicellularity and selective advantage for communicating populations . While genetic “switching” phenomena are a common feature , their mechanistic underpinnings have remained elusive . The interplay between circuit components and their regulation are intertwined and embedded . Observable phenotypes are complex and context dependent . We employed a combination of experimental work and mathematical models to decipher network connectivity and signal transduction in the autoinducer-2 ( AI-2 ) quorum sensing system of E . coli . Negative and positive feedback mechanisms were examined by separating the network architecture into sub-networks . A new unreported negative feedback interaction was hypothesized and tested via a simple mathematical model . Also , the importance of the LsrR regulator and its determinant role in the E . coli QS “switch” , normally masked by interfering regulatory loops , were revealed . Our simple model allowed mechanistic u
Malaria burden remains high in the sub-Saharan region where helminths are prevalent and where children are often infected with both types of parasites . Although the effect of helminths on malaria infection is evident , the impact of these co-infections is not clearly elucidated yet and the scarce findings are conflicting . In this study , we investigated the effect of schistosomiasis , considering soil-transmitted helminths ( STH ) , on prevalence and incidence of Plasmodium falciparum infection . This longitudinal survey was conducted in school-age children living in two rural communities in the vicinity of Lambaréné , Gabon . Thick blood smear light microscopy , urine filtration and the Kato-Katz technique were performed to detect malaria parasites , S . haematobium eggs and , STH eggs , respectively . P . falciparum carriage was assessed at inclusion , and incidence of malaria and time to the first malaria event were recorded in correlation with Schistosoma carriage status . Strati
Inflammation is known to be necessary for promoting , sustaining , and tuning CD8+ T cell responses . Following experimental Leishmania donovani infection , the inflammatory response is mainly induced by the transcription factor IRF-5 . IRF-5 is responsible for the activation of several genes encoding key pro-inflammatory cytokines , such as IL-6 and TNF . Here , we investigate the role of IRF-5-mediated inflammation in regulating antigen-specific CD8+ T cell responses during L . donovani infection . Our data demonstrate that the inflammatory response induced by IRF-5 limits CD8+ T cell expansion and induces HIF-1α in dendritic cells . Ablation of HIF-1α in CD11c+ cells resulted into a higher frequency of short-lived effector cells ( SLEC ) , enhanced CD8+ T cell expansion , and increased IL-12 expression by splenic DCs . Moreover , mice with a targeted depletion of HIF-1α in CD11c+ cells had a significantly lower splenic parasite burden , suggesting that induction of HIF-1α may repres
In the current context of high fatality rates associated with American visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) , the appropriate use of prognostic factors to identify patients at higher risk of unfavorable outcomes represents a potential tool for clinical practice . This systematic review brings together information reported in studies conducted in Latin America , on the potential predictors of adverse prognosis ( continued evolution of the initial clinical conditions of the patient despite the implementation of treatment , independent of the occurrence of death ) and death from VL . The limitations of the existing knowledge , the advances achieved and the approaches to be used in future research are presented . The full texts of 14 studies conforming to the inclusion criteria were analyzed and their methodological quality examined by means of a tool developed in the light of current research tools . Information regarding prognostic variables was synthesized using meta-analysis . Variables were 
In Algeria , the treatment of visceral and cutaneous leishmanioses ( VL and CL ) has been and continues to be based on antimony-containing drugs . It is suspected that high drug selective pressure might favor the emergence of chemoresistant parasites . Although treatment failure is frequently reported during antimonial therapy of both CL and VL , antimonial resistance has never been thoroughly investigated in Algeria . Determining the level of antimonial susceptibility , amongst Leishmania transmitted in Algeria , is of great importance for the development of public health policies . Within the framework of the knowledge about the epidemiology of VL and CL amassed during the last 30 years , we sampled Leishmania isolates to determine their susceptibility to antimony . We analyzed a total of 106 isolates including 88 isolates collected between 1976 and 2013 in Algeria from humans , dogs , rodents , and phlebotomines and 18 collected from dogs in France . All the Algerian isolates were c
Crohn’s disease ( CD ) is a chronic inflammatory condition of diverse etiology . Exposure to foodborne pathogens causing acute gastroenteritis produces a long-term risk of CD well into the post-infectious period but the mechanistic basis for this ongoing relationship to disease onset is unknown . We developed two novel models to study the comorbidity of acute gastroenteritis caused by Salmonella Typhimurium or Citrobacter rodentium in mice colonized with adherent-invasive Escherichia coli ( AIEC ) , a bacterial pathobiont linked to CD . Here , we show that disease activity in the post-infectious period after gastroenteritis is driven by the tissue-associated expansion of the resident AIEC pathobiont , with an attendant increase in immunopathology , barrier defects , and delays in mucosal restitution following pathogen clearance . These features required AIEC resistance to host defense peptides and a fulminant inflammatory response to the enteric pathogen . Our results suggest that indi
In flowering plants , the egg and sperm cells form within haploid gametophytes . The female gametophyte of Arabidopsis consists of two gametic cells , the egg cell and the central cell , which are flanked by five accessory cells . Both gametic and accessory cells are vital for fertilization; however , the mechanisms that underlie the formation of accessory versus gametic cell fate are unknown . In a screen for regulators of egg cell fate , we isolated the lachesis ( lis ) mutant which forms supernumerary egg cells . In lis mutants , accessory cells differentiate gametic cell fate , indicating that LIS is involved in a mechanism that prevents accessory cells from adopting gametic cell fate . The temporal and spatial pattern of LIS expression suggests that this mechanism is generated in gametic cells . LIS is homologous to the yeast splicing factor PRP4 , indicating that components of the splice apparatus participate in cell fate decisions . 
The role of footwear in protection against a range of Neglected Tropical Diseases ( NTDs ) is gaining increasing attention . Better understanding of the behaviors that influence use of footwear will lead to improved ability to measure shoe use and will be important for those implementing footwear programs . Using the PRECEDE-PROCEED model we assessed social , behavioral , environmental , educational and ecological needs influencing whether and when children wear shoes in a rural highland Ethiopian community endemic for podoconiosis . Information was gathered from 242 respondents using focus groups , semi-structured interviews and extended case studies . Shoe-wearing norms were said to be changing , with going barefoot increasingly seen as ‘shameful’ . Shoes were thought to confer dignity as well as protection against injury and cold . However , many practical and social barriers prevented the desire to wear shoes from being translated into practice . Limited financial resources meant t
The pseudorabies virus ( PRV ) Us9 protein plays a central role in targeting viral capsids and glycoproteins to axons of dissociated sympathetic neurons . As a result , Us9 null mutants are defective in anterograde transmission of infection in vivo . However , it is unclear how Us9 promotes axonal sorting of so many viral proteins . It is known that the glycoproteins gB , gC , gD and gE are associated with lipid raft microdomains on the surface of infected swine kidney cells and monocytes , and are directed into the axon in a Us9-dependent manner . In this report , we determined that Us9 is associated with lipid rafts , and that this association is critical to Us9-mediated sorting of viral structural proteins . We used infected non-polarized and polarized PC12 cells , a rat pheochromocytoma cell line that acquires many of the characteristics of sympathetic neurons in the presence of nerve growth factor ( NGF ) . In these cells , Us9 is highly enriched in detergent-resistant membranes (
Genetically identical cells exhibit extensive phenotypic variation even under constant and benign conditions . This so-called nongenetic heterogeneity has important clinical implications: within tumors and microbial infections , cells show nongenetic heterogeneity in growth rate and in susceptibility to drugs or stress . The budding yeast , Saccharomyces cerevisiae , shows a similar form of nongenetic heterogeneity in which growth rate correlates positively with susceptibility to acute heat stress at the single-cell level . Using genetic and chemical perturbations , combined with high-throughput single-cell assays of yeast growth and gene expression , we show here that heterogeneity in intracellular cyclic AMP ( cAMP ) levels acting through the conserved Ras/cAMP/protein kinase A ( PKA ) pathway and its target transcription factors , Msn2 and Msn4 , underlies this nongenetic heterogeneity . Lower levels of cAMP correspond to slower growth , as shown by direct comparison of cAMP concent
Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) , an alphavirus and member of the Togaviridae family , is capable of causing severe febrile disease in humans . In December of 2013 the Asian Lineage of CHIKV spread from the Old World to the Americas , spreading rapidly throughout the New World . Given this new emergence in naïve populations we studied the viral genetic diversity present in infected individuals to understand how CHIKV may have evolved during this continuing outbreak . We used deep-sequencing technologies coupled with well-established bioinformatics pipelines to characterize the minority variants and diversity present in CHIKV infected individuals from Guadeloupe and Martinique , two islands in the center of the epidemic . We observed changes in the consensus sequence as well as a diverse range of minority variants present at various levels in the population . Furthermore , we found that overall diversity was dramatically reduced after single passages in cell lines . Finally , we constructed
The mTOR signaling pathways regulate cell growth and are involved in multiple human diseases . Here , we identify UBTOR , a previously unannotated gene as a functional player in regulating cell growth and mTOR signaling . Reduction of UBTOR function in cultured hippocampal neurons and PC12 cells promotes neurite outgrowth . UBTOR depletion activates mTOR signaling and promotes cell growth , whilst UBTOR overexpression suppresses colony formation in cancer cell lines . Studies in cultured cells and zebrafish model show that UBTOR inhibits mTOR signaling by stabilizing the mTOR complex component DEPTOR , and ubtor gene disruption result in higher mTOR activity and aggravate HRAS ( G12V ) induced neoplasia in the zebrafish . Lastly , UBTOR depletion promotes tumor growth and mTOR signaling in a xenograft mouse model . Together , our results demonstrate how UBTOR regulates cell growth and neoplasia via mTOR signaling . 
The functions of the majority of trypanosomatid-specific proteins are unknown , hindering our understanding of the biology and pathogenesis of Trypanosomatida . While protein-protein interactions are highly informative about protein function , a global map of protein interactions and complexes is still lacking for these important human parasites . Here , benefiting from in-depth biochemical fractionation , we systematically interrogated the co-complex interactions of more than 3354 protein groups in procyclic life stage of Trypanosoma brucei , the protozoan parasite responsible for human African trypanosomiasis . Using a rigorous methodology , our analysis led to identification of 128 high-confidence complexes encompassing 716 protein groups , including 635 protein groups that lacked experimental annotation . These complexes correlate well with known pathways as well as for proteins co-expressed across the T . brucei life cycle , and provide potential functions for a large number of pr
Tuberculosis is commonly considered a chronic lung disease , however , extrapulmonary infection can occur in any organ . Even though lymph nodes ( LN ) are among the most common sites of extrapulmonary Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) infection , and thoracic LNs are frequently infected in humans , bacterial dynamics and the effect of Mtb infection in LN structure and function is relatively unstudied . We surveyed thoracic LNs from Mtb-infected cynomolgus and rhesus macaques analyzing PET CT scans , bacterial burden , LN structure and immune function . FDG avidity correlated with the presence of live bacteria in LNs at necropsy . Lymph nodes have different trajectories ( increasing , maintaining , decreasing in PET activity over time ) even within the same animal . Rhesus macaques are more susceptible to Mtb infection than cynomolgus macaques and this is in part due to more extensive LN pathology . Here , we show that Mtb grows to the same level in cynomolgus and rhesus macaque LNs ,
Microsporidia are fungi-related intracellular pathogens that may infect virtually all animals , but are poorly understood . The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans has recently become a model host for studying microsporidia through the identification of its natural microsporidian pathogen Nematocida parisii . However , it was unclear how widespread and diverse microsporidia infections are in C . elegans or other related nematodes in the wild . Here we describe the isolation and culture of 47 nematodes with microsporidian infections . N . parisii is found to be the most common microsporidia infecting C . elegans in the wild . In addition , we further describe and name six new species in the Nematocida genus . Our sampling and phylogenetic analysis further identify two subclades that are genetically distinct from Nematocida , and we name them Enteropsectra and Pancytospora . Interestingly , unlike Nematocida , these two genera belong to the main clade of microsporidia that includes human pat
Chemokine receptors , a subclass of G protein coupled receptors ( GPCRs ) , play essential roles in the human immune system , they are involved in cancer metastasis as well as in HIV-infection . A plethora of studies show that homo- and heterodimers or even higher order oligomers of the chemokine receptors CXCR4 , CCR5 , and CCR2 modulate receptor function . In addition , membrane cholesterol affects chemokine receptor activity . However , structural information about homo- and heterodimers formed by chemokine receptors and their interplay with cholesterol is limited . Here , we report homo- and heterodimer configurations of the chemokine receptors CXCR4 , CCR5 , and CCR2 at atomistic detail , as obtained from thousands of molecular dynamics simulations . The observed homodimerization patterns were similar for the closely related CC chemokine receptors , yet they differed significantly between the CC receptors and CXCR4 . Despite their high sequence identity , cholesterol modulated the
Systemic leishmaniasis has been known to present with prolonged fever , hepatosplenomegaly and wasting . Beside this classical form , a sub-clinical form has been identified . It is described with either one or two of the above symptoms missing; other findings have been reported instead , such as lymphadenopathy and anemia . In this report , we reveal a third unsuspected form which we are referring to as “atypical” . Patients suspected to be immune-deficient were referred to our immunology specialized laboratory to study some aspects of their immune functions ( not normally covered in the general laboratory ) . Multiple specialized tests were performed , including microscopic examinations using appropriate stains , and mainly cultures of biopsies on several types of specialized media . 19·4% of 160 patients were found to have close to normal laboratory profiles , but exhibited dysfunctional macrophages laden with Leishmania parasites . Findings such as the ones we obtained allowed us t
The millions of mutations and polymorphisms that occur in human populations are potential predictors of disease , of our reactions to drugs , of predisposition to microbial infections , and of age-related conditions such as impaired brain and cardiovascular functions . However , predicting the phenotypic consequences and eventual clinical significance of a sequence variant is not an easy task . Computational approaches have found perturbation of conserved amino acids to be a useful criterion for identifying variants likely to have phenotypic consequences . To our knowledge , however , no study to date has explored the potential of variants that occur at homologous positions within paralogous human proteins as a means of identifying polymorphisms with likely phenotypic consequences . In order to investigate the potential of this approach , we have assembled a unique collection of known disease-causing variants from OMIM and the Human Genome Mutation Database ( HGMD ) and used them to id
Within the human host , the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum is exposed to multiple selection pressures . The host environment changes dramatically in severe malaria , but the extent to which the parasite responds to—or is selected by—this environment remains unclear . From previous studies , the parasites that cause severe malaria appear to increase expression of a restricted but poorly defined subset of the PfEMP1 variant , surface antigens . PfEMP1s are major targets of protective immunity . Here , we used RNA sequencing ( RNAseq ) to analyse gene expression in 44 parasite isolates that caused severe and uncomplicated malaria in Papuan patients . The transcriptomes of 19 parasite isolates associated with severe malaria indicated that these parasites had decreased glycolysis without activation of compensatory pathways; altered chromatin structure and probably transcriptional regulation through decreased histone methylation; reduced surface expression of PfEMP1; and down-regulat
Long-term delivery of potent broadly-neutralizing antibodies is a promising approach for the prevention of HIV-1 infection . We used AAV vector intramuscularly to deliver anti-SIV monoclonal antibodies ( mAbs ) in IgG1 form to rhesus monkeys . Persisting levels of delivered mAb as high as 270 μg/ml were achieved . However , host antibody responses to the delivered antibody were observed in 9 of the 12 monkeys and these appeared to limit the concentration of delivered antibody that could be achieved . This is reflected in the wide range of delivered mAb concentrations that were achieved: 1–270 μg/ml . Following repeated , marginal dose , intravenous challenge with the difficult-to-neutralize SIVmac239 , the six monkeys in the AAV-5L7 IgG1 mAb group showed clear protective effects despite the absence of detectable neutralizing activity against the challenge virus . The protective effects included: lowering of viral load at peak height; lowering of viral load at set point; delay in the ti
The assumption of linear response of protein molecules to thermal noise or structural perturbations , such as ligand binding or detachment , is broadly used in the studies of protein dynamics . Conformational motions in proteins are traditionally analyzed in terms of normal modes and experimental data on thermal fluctuations in such macromolecules is also usually interpreted in terms of the excitation of normal modes . We have chosen two important protein motors — myosin V and kinesin KIF1A — and performed numerical investigations of their conformational relaxation properties within the coarse-grained elastic network approximation . We have found that the linearity assumption is deficient for ligand-induced conformational motions and can even be violated for characteristic thermal fluctuations . The deficiency is particularly pronounced in KIF1A where the normal mode description fails completely in describing functional mechanochemical motions . These results indicate that important as
Several studies have suggested crosstalk between different clathrin-independent endocytic pathways . However , the molecular mechanisms and functional relevance of these interactions are unclear . Caveolins and cavins are crucial components of caveolae , specialized microdomains that also constitute an endocytic route . Here we show that specific caveolar proteins are independently acting negative regulators of clathrin-independent endocytosis . Cavin-1 and Cavin-3 , but not Cavin-2 or Cavin-4 , are potent inhibitors of the clathrin-independent carriers/GPI-AP enriched early endosomal compartment ( CLIC/GEEC ) endocytic pathway , in a process independent of caveola formation . Caveolin-1 ( CAV1 ) and CAV3 also inhibit the CLIC/GEEC pathway upon over-expression . Expression of caveolar protein leads to reduction in formation of early CLIC/GEEC carriers , as detected by quantitative electron microscopy analysis . Furthermore , the CLIC/GEEC pathway is upregulated in cells lacking CAV1/Ca
Two-component signaling systems are ubiquitous in bacteria , Archaea and plants and play important roles in sensing and responding to environmental stimuli . To propagate a signaling response the typical system employs a sensory histidine kinase that phosphorylates a Receiver ( REC ) domain on a conserved aspartate ( Asp ) residue . Although it is known that some REC domains are missing this Asp residue , it remains unclear as to how many of these divergent REC domains exist , what their functional roles are and how they are regulated in the absence of the conserved Asp . Here we have compiled all deposited REC domains missing their phosphorylatable Asp residue , renamed here as the Aspartate-Less Receiver ( ALR ) domains . Our data show that ALRs are surprisingly common and are enriched for when attached to more rare effector outputs . Analysis of our informatics and the available ALR atomic structures , combined with structural , biochemical and genetic data of the ALR archetype RitR
Oncolytic herpes simplex viruses ( oHSVs ) showed efficacy in clinical trials and practice . Most of them gain cancer-specificity from deletions/mutations in genes that counteract the host response , and grow selectively in cancer cells defective in anti-viral response . Because of the deletions/mutations , they are frequently attenuated or over-attenuated . We developed next-generation oHSVs , which carry no deletion/mutation , gain cancer-specificity from specific retargeting to tumor cell receptors—e . g . HER2 ( human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 ) —hence are fully-virulent in the targeted cancer cells . The type of immunotherapy they elicit was not predictable , since non-attenuated HSVs induce and then dampen the innate response , whereas deleted/attenuated viruses fail to contrast it , and since the retargeted oHSVs replicate efficiently in tumor cells , but spare other cells in the tumor . We report on the first efficacy study of HER2-retargeted , fully-virulent oHSVs in 
The concerns raised from adenovirus 5 ( Ad5 ) -based HIV vaccine clinical trials , where excess HIV infections were observed in some vaccine recipients , have highlighted the importance of understanding host responses to vaccine vectors and the HIV susceptibility of vector-specific CD4 T cells in HIV vaccination . Our recent study reported that human Ad5-specific CD4 T cells induced by Ad5 vaccination ( RV156A trial ) are susceptible to HIV . Here we further investigated the HIV susceptibility of vector-specific CD4 T cells induced by ALVAC , a canarypox viral vector tested in the Thai trial RV144 , as compared to Ad5 vector-specific CD4 T cells in the HVTN204 trial . We showed that while Ad5 vector-specific CD4 T cells were readily susceptible to HIV , ALVAC-specific CD4 T cells in RV144 PBMC were substantially less susceptible to both R5 and X4 HIV in vitro . The lower HIV susceptibility of ALVAC-specific CD4 T cells was associated with the reduced surface expression of HIV entry co-
X inactivation—the transcriptional silencing of one X chromosome copy per female somatic cell—is universal among therian mammals , yet the choice of which X to silence exhibits considerable variation among species . X inactivation strategies can range from strict paternally inherited X inactivation ( PXI ) , which renders females haploid for all maternally inherited alleles , to unbiased random X inactivation ( RXI ) , which equalizes expression of maternally and paternally inherited alleles in each female tissue . However , the underlying evolutionary processes that might account for this observed diversity of X inactivation strategies remain unclear . We present a theoretical population genetic analysis of X inactivation evolution and specifically consider how conditions of dominance , linkage , recombination , and sex-differential selection each influence evolutionary trajectories of X inactivation . The results indicate that a single , critical interaction between allelic dominance
CCCH-type zinc-finger antiviral protein ( ZAP ) is a host factor that restricts the infection of many viruses mainly through RNA degradation , translation inhibition and innate immune responses . So far , only one flavivirus , yellow fever virus , has been reported to be ZAP-resistant . Here , we investigated the antiviral potential of human ZAP ( isoform ZAP-L and ZAP-S ) against three flaviviruses , Japanese encephalitis virus ( JEV ) , dengue virus ( DENV ) and Zika virus ( ZIKV ) . Infection of JEV but not DENV or ZIKV was blocked by ZAP overexpression , and depletion of endogenous ZAP enhanced JEV replication . ZAP hampered JEV translation and targeted viral RNA for 3′-5′ RNA exosome-mediated degradation . The zinc-finger motifs of ZAP were essential for RNA targeting and anti-JEV activity . JEV 3′-UTR , especially in the region with dumbbell structures and high content of CG dinucleotide , was mapped to bind ZAP and confer sensitivity to ZAP . In summary , we identified JEV as th
Rift Valley fever virus ( RVFV ) is a major human and animal pathogen associated with severe disease including hemorrhagic fever or encephalitis . RVFV is endemic to parts of Africa and the Arabian Peninsula , but there is significant concern regarding its introduction into non-endemic regions and the potentially devastating effect to livestock populations with concurrent infections of humans . To date , there is little detailed data directly comparing the host response to infection with wild-type or vaccine strains of RVFV and correlation with viral pathogenesis . Here we characterized clinical and systemic immune responses to infection with wild-type strain ZH501 or IND vaccine strain MP-12 in the C57BL/6 mouse . Animals infected with live-attenuated MP-12 survived productive viral infection with little evidence of clinical disease and minimal cytokine response in evaluated tissues . In contrast , ZH501 infection was lethal , caused depletion of lymphocytes and platelets and elicited
Chemotherapeutic resistance in triple-negative breast cancer ( TNBC ) has brought great challenges to the improvement of patient survival . The mechanisms of taxane chemoresistance in TNBC have not been well investigated . Our results illustrated C-C motif chemokine ligand 20 ( CCL20 ) was significantly elevated during taxane-containing chemotherapy in breast cancer patients with nonpathologic complete response . Furthermore , CCL20 promoted the self-renewal and maintenance of breast cancer stem cells ( BCSCs ) or breast cancer stem-like cells through protein kinase Cζ ( PKCζ ) or p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) -mediated activation of p65 nuclear factor kappa B ( NF-κB ) pathway , significantly increasing the frequency and taxane resistance of BCSCs . Moreover , CCL20-promoted NF-κB activation increased ATP-binding cassette subfamily B member 1 ( ABCB1 ) /multidrug resistance 1 ( MDR1 ) expression , leading to the extracellular efflux of taxane . These results suggested 
Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular parasite that can infect virtually all nucleated cells in warm-blooded animals . The ability of Toxoplasma tachyzoites to infect and successfully manipulate its host is dependent on its ability to transport “GRA” proteins that originate in unique secretory organelles called dense granules into the host cell in which they reside . GRAs have diverse roles in Toxoplasma’s intracellular lifecycle , including co-opting crucial host cell functions and proteins , such as the cell cycle , c-Myc and p38 MAP kinase . Some of these GRA proteins , such as GRA16 and GRA24 , are secreted into the parasitophorous vacuole ( PV ) within which Toxoplasma replicates and are transported across the PV membrane ( PVM ) into the host cell , but the translocation process and its machinery are not well understood . We previously showed that TgMYR1 , which is cleaved by TgASP5 into two fragments , localizes to the PVM and is essential for GRA transport into the hos
The origin recognition complex ( ORC ) coordinates a series of events that lead to initiation of DNA strand duplication . As a nuclear double stranded DNA plasmid , the papillomavirus ( PV ) genome resembles a mini-chromosome in infected cells . To initiate its replication , the viral E2 protein binds to and recruits the E1 DNA helicase at the viral origin . PV genome replication program exhibits three stages: initial amplification from a single genome upon infection to a few copies per cell , a cell cycle linked maintenance phase , and a differentiation dependent late stage where the genome is amplified to thousands of copies . Involvement of ORC or other pre-replication complex ( pre-RC ) factors has not been described . We report that human PV ( HPV ) and bovine PV ( BPV-1 ) E2 proteins bind to ORC2 , however , ORC2 was not detected at the viral origin . Depletion of ORC2 enhanced PV replication in a transient replication model and in keratinocytes stably maintaining viral episomes 
Brucellosis is one of the most common zoonoses globally , and Central Asia remains a Brucella hotspot . The World Health Organization classifies brucellosis as a neglected zoonotic disease that is rarely in the spotlight for research and mainly affects poor , marginalized people . Urban and peri-urban farming is a common practice in many low-income countries , and it increases the incomes of families that are often restrained by limited economic resources . However , there is a concern that the growing number of people and livestock living close together in these areas will increase the transmission of zoonotic pathogens such as Brucella . This study investigates the presence of Brucella DNA in bovine milk in the urban and peri-urban area of Dushanbe , Tajikistan . Brucella DNA was detected in 10 . 3% of 564 cow milk samples by IS711-based real-time PCR . This finding is concerning because consumption of unpasteurized dairy products is common in the region . Furthermore , Brucella DNA 
Chromosome and genome stability are important for normal cell function as instability often correlates with disease and dysfunction of DNA repair mechanisms . Many organisms maintain supernumerary or accessory chromosomes that deviate from standard chromosomes . The pathogenic fungus Zymoseptoria tritici has as many as eight accessory chromosomes , which are highly unstable during meiosis and mitosis , transcriptionally repressed , show enrichment of repetitive elements , and enrichment with heterochromatic histone methylation marks , e . g . , trimethylation of H3 lysine 9 or lysine 27 ( H3K9me3 , H3K27me3 ) . To elucidate the role of heterochromatin on genome stability in Z . tritici , we deleted the genes encoding the methyltransferases responsible for H3K9me3 and H3K27me3 , kmt1 and kmt6 , respectively , and generated a double mutant . We combined experimental evolution and genomic analyses to determine the impact of these deletions on chromosome and genome stability , both in vitr
Prompt post-exposure prophylaxis ( PEP ) is essential in preventing the fatal onset of disease in persons exposed to rabies . Unfortunately , life-saving rabies vaccines and biologicals are often neither accessible nor affordable , particularly to the poorest sectors of society who are most at risk and upon whom the largest burden of rabies falls . Increasing accessibility , reducing costs and preventing delays in delivery of PEP should therefore be prioritized . We analyzed different PEP vaccination regimens and evaluated their relative costs and benefits to bite victims and healthcare providers . We found PEP vaccination to be an extremely cost-effective intervention ( from $200 to less than $60/death averted ) . Switching from intramuscular ( IM ) administration of PEP to equally efficacious intradermal ( ID ) regimens was shown to result in significant savings in the volume of vaccine required to treat the same number of patients , which could mitigate vaccine shortages , and would
Toxoplasma is an obligate intracellular parasite that replicates in mammalian cells within a parasitophorous vacuole ( PV ) that does not fuse with any host organelles . One mechanism developed by the parasite for nutrient acquisition is the attraction of host organelles to the PV . Here , we examined the exploitation of host lipid droplets ( LD ) , ubiquitous fat storage organelles , by Toxoplasma . We show that Toxoplasma replication is reduced in host cells that are depleted of LD , or impaired in TAG lipolysis or fatty acid catabolism . In infected cells , the number of host LD and the expression of host LD-associated genes ( ADRP , DGAT2 ) , progressively increase until the onset of parasite replication . Throughout infection , the PV are surrounded by host LD . Toxoplasma is capable of accessing lipids stored in host LD and incorporates these lipids into its own membranes and LD . Exogenous addition of oleic acid stimulates LD biogenesis in the host cell and results in the overac
Increased reports of human infections have led fasciolosis , a widespread disease of cattle and sheep caused by the liver flukes Fasciola hepatica and Fasciola gigantica , to be considered an emerging zoonotic disease . Chemotherapy is the main control measure available , and triclabendazole is the preferred drug since is effective against both juvenile and mature parasites . However , resistance to triclabendazole has been reported in several countries urging the search of new chemical entities and target molecules to control fluke infections . We searched a library of forty flavonoid derivatives for inhibitors of key stage specific Fasciola hepatica cysteine proteases ( FhCL3 and FhCL1 ) . Chalcones substituted with phenyl and naphtyl groups emerged as good cathepsin L inhibitors , interacting more frequently with two putative binding sites within the active site cleft of the enzymes . One of the compounds , C34 , tightly bounds to juvenile specific FhCL3 with an IC50 of 5 . 6 μM . W
The visual system transmits information about fast and slow changes in light intensity through separate neural pathways . We used in vivo imaging to investigate how bipolar cells transmit these signals to the inner retina . We found that the volume of the synaptic terminal is an intrinsic property that contributes to different temporal filters . Individual cells transmit through multiple terminals varying in size , but smaller terminals generate faster and larger calcium transients to trigger vesicle release with higher initial gain , followed by more profound adaptation . Smaller terminals transmitted higher stimulus frequencies more effectively . Modeling global calcium dynamics triggering vesicle release indicated that variations in the volume of presynaptic compartments contribute directly to all these differences in response dynamics . These results indicate how one neuron can transmit different temporal components in the visual signal through synaptic terminals of varying geometr
Deeper exploration of the brain’s vast synaptic networks will require new tools for high-throughput structural and molecular profiling of the diverse populations of synapses that compose those networks . Fluorescence microscopy ( FM ) and electron microscopy ( EM ) offer complementary advantages and disadvantages for single-synapse analysis . FM combines exquisite molecular discrimination capacities with high speed and low cost , but rigorous discrimination between synaptic and non-synaptic fluorescence signals is challenging . In contrast , EM remains the gold standard for reliable identification of a synapse , but offers only limited molecular discrimination and is slow and costly . To develop and test single-synapse image analysis methods , we have used datasets from conjugate array tomography ( cAT ) , which provides voxel-conjugate FM and EM ( annotated ) images of the same individual synapses . We report a novel unsupervised probabilistic method for detection of synapses from mul
Zinc is a vital trace element crucial for the proper function of some 3 , 000 cellular proteins . Specifically , zinc is essential for key physiological processes including nucleic acid metabolism , regulation of gene expression , signal transduction , cell division , immune- and nervous system functions , wound healing , and apoptosis . Consequently , impairment of zinc homeostasis disrupts key cellular functions resulting in various human pathologies . Mammalian zinc transport proceeds via two transporter families ZnT and ZIP . However , the detailed mechanism of action of ZnT2 , which is responsible for vesicular zinc accumulation and zinc secretion into breast milk during lactation , is currently unknown . Moreover , although the putative coupling of zinc transport to the proton gradient in acidic vesicles has been suggested , it has not been conclusively established . Herein we modeled the mechanism of action of ZnT2 and demonstrated both computationally and experimentally , using
Replication fork integrity , which is essential for the maintenance of genome stability , is monitored by checkpoint-mediated phosphorylation events . 14-3-3 proteins are able to bind phosphorylated proteins and were shown to play an undefined role under DNA replication stress . Exonuclease 1 ( Exo1 ) processes stalled replication forks in checkpoint-defective yeast cells . We now identify 14-3-3 proteins as in vivo interaction partners of Exo1 , both in yeast and mammalian cells . Yeast 14-3-3–deficient cells fail to induce Mec1–dependent Exo1 hyperphosphorylation and accumulate Exo1–dependent ssDNA gaps at stalled forks , as revealed by electron microscopy . This leads to persistent checkpoint activation and exacerbated recovery defects . Moreover , using DNA bi-dimensional electrophoresis , we show that 14-3-3 proteins promote fork progression under limiting nucleotide concentrations . We propose that 14-3-3 proteins assist in controlling the phosphorylation status of Exo1 and addit
The role of plasmacytoid dendritic cells ( pDC ) in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( HIV-1 ) infection and pathogenesis remains unclear . HIV-1 infection in the humanized mouse model leads to persistent HIV-1 infection and immunopathogenesis , including type I interferons ( IFN-I ) induction , immune-activation and depletion of human leukocytes , including CD4 T cells . We developed a monoclonal antibody that specifically depletes human pDC in all lymphoid organs in humanized mice . When pDC were depleted prior to HIV-1 infection , the induction of IFN-I and interferon-stimulated genes ( ISGs ) were abolished during acute HIV-1 infection with either a highly pathogenic CCR5/CXCR4-dual tropic HIV-1 or a standard CCR5-tropic HIV-1 isolate . Consistent with the anti-viral role of IFN-I , HIV-1 replication was significantly up-regulated in pDC-depleted mice . Interestingly , the cell death induced by the highly pathogenic HIV-1 isolate was severely reduced in pDC-depleted mice . Durin
Marburg virus , the Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) and Dengue virus all activate , and benefit from , expression of the transcription regulator nuclear erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2 ) . The impact of Nrf2 activation on human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) infection has not been tested . Sulforaphane ( SFN ) , produced in cruciferous vegetables after mechanical damage , mobilizes Nrf2 to potently reprogram cellular gene expression . Here we show for the first time that SFN blocks HIV infection in primary macrophages but not in primary T cells . Similarly SFN blocks infection in PMA-differentiated promonocytic cell lines , but not in other cell lines tested . siRNA-mediated depletion of Nrf2 boosted HIV infectivity in primary macrophages and reduced the anti-viral effects of SFN treatment . This supports a model in which anti-viral activity is mediated through Nrf2 after it is mobilized by SFN . We further found that , like the type I interferon-induced cellular a
Geohelminth infections are common in rural western Kenya , but risk factors and effects among pregnant women are not clear . During a community-based cross-sectional survey , pregnant women were interviewed and asked to provide a blood sample and a single fecal sample . Hemoglobin was measured and a blood slide examined for malaria . Geohelminth infections were identified using the concentration and Kato-Katz method . Among 390 participants who provided a stool sample , 76 . 2% were infected with at least one geohelminth: 52 . 3% with Ascaris lumbricoides , 39 . 5% with hookworm , and 29 . 0% with Trichuris trichiura . Infection with at least one geohelminth species was associated with the use of an unprotected water source ( adjusted odds ratio [AOR] 1 . 8 , 95% confidence interval [CI] 1 . 1–3 . 0 ) and the lack of treatment of drinking water ( AOR 1 . 8 , 95% CI 1 . 1–3 . 1 ) . Geohelminth infections were not associated with clinical symptoms , or low body mass index . A hookworm in
Mycolactone is a macrolide produced by the skin pathogen Mycobacterium ulcerans , with cytotoxic , analgesic and immunomodulatory properties . The latter were recently shown to result from mycolactone blocking the Sec61-dependent production of pro-inflammatory mediators by immune cells . Here we investigated whether mycolactone similarly affects the inflammatory responses of the nervous cell subsets involved in pain perception , transmission and maintenance . We also investigated the effects of mycolactone on the neuroinflammation that is associated with chronic pain in vivo . Sensory neurons , Schwann cells and microglia were isolated from mice for ex vivo assessment of mycolactone cytotoxicity and immunomodulatory activity by measuring the production of proalgesic cytokines and chemokines . In all cell types studied , prolonged ( >48h ) exposure to mycolactone induced significant cell death at concentrations >10 ng/ml . Within the first 24h treatment , nanomolar concentrations of myc
Human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) , a lethal disease induced by Trypanosoma brucei gambiense , has a range of clinical outcomes in its human host in West Africa: an acute form progressing rapidly to second stage , spontaneous self-cure and individuals able to regulate parasitaemia at very low levels , have all been reported from endemic foci . In order to test if this clinical diversity is influenced by host genetic determinants , the association between candidate gene polymorphisms and HAT outcome was investigated in populations from HAT active foci in Guinea . Samples were collected from 425 individuals; comprising of 232 HAT cases , 79 subjects with long lasting positive and specific serology but negative parasitology and 114 endemic controls . Genotypes of 28 SNPs in eight genes passed quality control and were used for an association analysis . IL6 rs1818879 allele A ( p = 0 . 0001 , OR = 0 . 39 , CI95 = [0 . 24–0 . 63] , BONF = 0 . 0034 ) was associated with a lower risk of pr
South Asia possesses a significant amount of genetic diversity due to considerable intergroup differences in culture and language . There have been numerous reports on the genetic structure of Asian Indians , although these have mostly relied on genotyping microarrays or targeted sequencing of the mitochondria and Y chromosomes . Asian Indians in Singapore are primarily descendants of immigrants from Dravidian-language–speaking states in south India , and 38 individuals from the general population underwent deep whole-genome sequencing with a target coverage of 30X as part of the Singapore Sequencing Indian Project ( SSIP ) . The genetic structure and diversity of these samples were compared against samples from the Singapore Sequencing Malay Project and populations in Phase 1 of the 1 , 000 Genomes Project ( 1 KGP ) . SSIP samples exhibited greater intra-population genetic diversity and possessed higher heterozygous-to-homozygous genotype ratio than other Asian populations . When comp
Burkholderia pseudomallei is intrinsically resistant to aminoglycosides and macrolides , mostly due to AmrAB-OprA efflux pump expression . We investigated the molecular mechanisms of aminoglycoside susceptibility exhibited by Thai strains 708a , 2188a , and 3799a . qRT-PCR revealed absence of amrB transcripts in 708a and greatly reduced levels in 2188a and 3799a . Serial passage on increasing gentamicin concentrations yielded 2188a and 3799a mutants that became simultaneously resistant to other aminoglycosides and macrolides , whereas such mutants could not be obtained with 708a . Transcript analysis showed that the resistance of the 2188a and 3799a mutants was due to upregulation of amrAB-oprA expression by unknown mechanism ( s ) . Use of a PCR walking strategy revealed that the amrAB-oprA operon was missing in 708a and that this loss was associated with deletion of more than 70 kb of genetic material . Rescue of the amrAB-oprB region from a 708a fosmid library and sequencing showed 
During eukaryotic development , the induction of a lineage-specific transcription factor typically drives differentiation of multipotent progenitor cells , while repressing that of alternative lineages . This process is often mediated by some extracellular signaling molecules , such as cytokines that can bind to cell surface receptors , leading to activation and/or repression of transcription factors . We explored the early differentiation of naive CD4 T helper ( Th ) cells into Th1 versus Th2 states by counting single transcripts and quantifying immunofluorescence in individual cells . Contrary to mutually exclusive expression of antagonistic transcription factors , we observed their ubiquitous co-expression in individual cells at high levels that are distinct from basal-level co-expression during lineage priming . We observed that cytokines are expressed only in a small subpopulation of cells , independent from the expression of transcription factors in these single cells . This cell
C . elegans PAQR-2 is homologous to the insulin-sensitizing adiponectin receptors in mammals , and essential for adaptation to growth at 15°C , a low but usually acceptable temperature for this organism . By screening for novel paqr-2 suppressors , we identified mutations in genes involved in phosphatidylcholine synthesis ( cept-1 , pcyt-1 and sams-1 ) and fatty acid metabolism ( ech-7 , hacd-1 , mdt-15 , nhr-49 and sbp-1 ) . We then show genetic evidence that paqr-2 , phosphatidylcholines , sbp-1 and Δ9-desaturases form a cold adaptation pathway that regulates the increase in unsaturated fatty acids necessary to retain membrane fluidity at low temperatures . This model is supported by the observations that the paqr-2 suppressors normalize the levels of saturated fatty acids , and that low concentrations of detergents that increase membrane fluidity can rescue the paqr-2 mutant . 
Herpes viruses are prevalent and well characterized human pathogens . Despite extensive study , much remains to be learned about the structure of the genome packaging and release machinery in the capsids of these large and complex double-stranded DNA viruses . However , such machinery is well characterized in tailed bacteriophage , which share a common evolutionary origin with herpesvirus . In tailed bacteriophage , the genome exits from the virus particle through a portal and is transferred into the host cell by a complex apparatus ( i . e . the tail ) located at the portal vertex . Here we use electron cryo-tomography of human herpes simplex type-1 ( HSV-1 ) virions to reveal a previously unsuspected feature at the portal vertex , which extends across the HSV-1 tegument layer to form a connection between the capsid and the viral membrane . The location of this assembly suggests that it plays a role in genome release into the nucleus and is also important for virion architecture . 
Parasitic helminths evade , skew and dampen human immune responses through numerous mechanisms . Such effects will likely have consequences for HIV-1 transmission and disease progression . Here we analyzed the effects that soluble egg antigen ( SEA ) from Schistosoma mansoni had on modulating HIV-1 infection and cytokine/chemokine production in vitro . We determined that SEA , specifically through kappa-5 , can potently bind to DC-SIGN and thereby blocks DC-SIGN mediated HIV-1 trans-infection ( p<0 . 05 ) whilst not interfering with cis-infection . DCs exposed to SEA whilst maturing under Th2 promoting conditions , will upon co-culture with naïve T-cells induce a T-cell population that was less susceptible to HIV-1 R5 infection ( p<0 . 05 ) compared to DCs unexposed to SEA , whereas HIV-1 X4 virus infection was unaffected . This was not observed for DCs exposed to SEA while maturing under Th1 or Th1/Th2 ( Tmix ) promoting conditions . All T-cell populations induced by SEA exposed DCs d
Neuronal stimulation causes ∼30% shrinkage of the extracellular space ( ECS ) between neurons and surrounding astrocytes in grey and white matter under experimental conditions . Despite its possible implications for a proper understanding of basic aspects of potassium clearance and astrocyte function , the phenomenon remains unexplained . Here we present a dynamic model that accounts for current experimental data related to the shrinkage phenomenon in wild-type as well as in gene knockout individuals . We find that neuronal release of potassium and uptake of sodium during stimulation , astrocyte uptake of potassium , sodium , and chloride in passive channels , action of the Na/K/ATPase pump , and osmotically driven transport of water through the astrocyte membrane together seem sufficient for generating ECS shrinkage as such . However , when taking into account ECS and astrocyte ion concentrations observed in connection with neuronal stimulation , the actions of the Na+/K+/Cl− ( NKCC1 
Eukaryotic genomes contain significant amounts of transposons and repetitive DNA elements , which , if transcribed , can be detrimental to the organism . Expression of these elements is suppressed by establishment of repressive chromatin modifications . In Arabidopsis thaliana , they are silenced by the siRNA–mediated transcriptional gene silencing pathway where long non-coding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) produced by RNA Polymerase V ( Pol V ) guide ARGONAUTE4 ( AGO4 ) to chromatin and attract enzymes that establish repressive chromatin modifications . It is unknown how chromatin modifying enzymes are recruited to chromatin . We show through chromatin immunoprecipitation ( ChIP ) that SPT5L/KTF1 , a silencing factor and a homolog of SPT5 elongation factors , binds chromatin at loci subject to transcriptional silencing . Chromatin binding of SPT5L/KTF1 occurs downstream of RNA Polymerase V , but independently from the presence of 24-nt siRNA . We also show that SPT5L/KTF1 and AGO4 are recruited to
While the roles of rpoSBb and RpoS-dependent genes have been studied extensively within the mammal , the contribution of the RpoS regulon to the tick-phase of the Borrelia burgdorferi enzootic cycle has not been examined . Herein , we demonstrate that RpoS-dependent gene expression is prerequisite for the transmission of spirochetes by feeding nymphs . RpoS-deficient organisms are confined to the midgut lumen where they transform into an unusual morphotype ( round bodies ) during the later stages of the blood meal . We show that round body formation is rapidly reversible , and in vitro appears to be attributable , in part , to reduced levels of Coenzyme A disulfide reductase , which among other functions , provides NAD+ for glycolysis . Our data suggest that spirochetes default to an RpoS-independent program for round body formation upon sensing that the energetics for transmission are unfavorable . 
Precise coordination between stamen and pistil development is essential to make a fertile flower . Mutations impairing stamen filament elongation , pollen maturation , or anther dehiscence will cause male sterility . Deficiency in plant hormone gibberellin ( GA ) causes male sterility due to accumulation of DELLA proteins , and GA triggers DELLA degradation to promote stamen development . Deficiency in plant hormone jasmonate ( JA ) also causes male sterility . However , little is known about the relationship between GA and JA in controlling stamen development . Here , we show that MYB21 , MYB24 , and MYB57 are GA-dependent stamen-enriched genes . Loss-of-function of two DELLAs RGA and RGL2 restores the expression of these three MYB genes together with restoration of stamen filament growth in GA-deficient plants . Genetic analysis showed that the myb21-t1 myb24-t1 myb57-t1 triple mutant confers a short stamen phenotype leading to male sterility . Further genetic and molecular studies d
Dietary restriction ( DR ) extends lifespan in various species and also slows the onset of age-related diseases . Previous studies from flies and yeast have demonstrated that the target of rapamycin ( TOR ) pathway is essential for longevity phenotypes resulting from DR . TOR is a conserved protein kinase that regulates growth and metabolism in response to nutrients and growth factors . While some of the downstream targets of TOR have been implicated in regulating lifespan , it is still unclear whether additional targets of this pathway also modulate lifespan . It has been shown that the hypoxia inducible factor-1 ( HIF-1 ) is one of the targets of the TOR pathway in mammalian cells . HIF-1 is a transcription factor complex that plays key roles in oxygen homeostasis , tumor formation , glucose metabolism , cell survival , and inflammatory response . Here , we describe a novel role for HIF-1 in modulating lifespan extension by DR in Caenorhabditis elegans . We find that HIF-1 deficiency
Transcription factor binding , chromatin modifications and large scale chromatin re-organization underlie progressive , irreversible cell lineage commitments and differentiation . We know little , however , about chromatin changes as cells enter transient , reversible states such as migration . Here we demonstrate that when human progenitor keratinocytes either differentiate or migrate they form complements of typical enhancers and super-enhancers that are unique for each state . Unique super-enhancers for each cellular state link to gene expression that confers functions associated with the respective cell state . These super-enhancers are also enriched for skin disease sequence variants . GRHL3 , a transcription factor that promotes both differentiation and migration , binds preferentially to super-enhancers in differentiating keratinocytes , while during migration , it binds preferentially to promoters along with REST , repressing the expression of migration inhibitors . Key epiderm
Endogenous retroviruses ( ERVs ) are remnants of ancient retroviral infections of the host germline transmitted vertically from generation to generation . It is hypothesized that some ERVs are used by the host as restriction factors to block the infection of pathogenic retroviruses . Indeed , some ERVs efficiently interfere with the replication of related exogenous retroviruses . However , data suggesting that these mechanisms have influenced the coevolution of endogenous and/or exogenous retroviruses and their hosts have been more difficult to obtain . Sheep are an interesting model system to study retrovirus-host coevolution because of the coexistence in this animal species of two exogenous ( i . e . , horizontally transmitted ) oncogenic retroviruses , Jaagsiekte sheep retrovirus and Enzootic nasal tumor virus , with highly related and biologically active endogenous retroviruses ( enJSRVs ) . Here , we isolated and characterized the evolutionary history and molecular virology of 27 
The diagnosis of schistosomiasis currently relies on microscopic detection of schistosome eggs in stool or urine samples and serological assays . The poor sensitivity of standard microscopic procedures performed in routine laboratories , makes molecular detection methods of increasing interest . The aim of the study was to evaluate two in-house real-time Schistosoma PCRs , targeting respectively S . mansoni [Sm] and S . haematobium [Sh] in excreta , biopsies and sera as potential tools to diagnose active infections and to monitor treatment efficacy . Schistosoma PCRs were performed on 412 samples ( 124 urine , 86 stools , 8 biopsies , 194 sera ) from patients with suspected schistosomiasis , before anti-parasitic treatment . Results were compared to microscopic examination and serological assays ( enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) , indirect haemagglutination ( HA ) and Western Blot ( WB ) assay ) . Compared to microscopy , PCRs significantly increased the sensitivity of diag
Machine learning has been used for estimation of potential energy surfaces to speed up molecular dynamics simulations of small systems . We demonstrate that this approach is feasible for significantly larger , structurally complex molecules , taking the natural product Archazolid A , a potent inhibitor of vacuolar-type ATPase , from the myxobacterium Archangium gephyra as an example . Our model estimates energies of new conformations by exploiting information from previous calculations via Gaussian process regression . Predictive variance is used to assess whether a conformation is in the interpolation region , allowing a controlled trade-off between prediction accuracy and computational speed-up . For energies of relaxed conformations at the density functional level of theory ( implicit solvent , DFT/BLYP-disp3/def2-TZVP ) , mean absolute errors of less than 1 kcal/mol were achieved . The study demonstrates that predictive machine learning models can be developed for structurally comp
Central Africa is a “hotspot” for emerging infectious diseases ( EIDs ) of global and local importance , and a current outbreak of ebolavirus is affecting multiple countries simultaneously . Ebolavirus is suspected to have caused recent declines in resident great apes . While ebolavirus vaccines have been proposed as an intervention to protect apes , their effectiveness would be improved if we could diagnostically confirm Ebola virus disease ( EVD ) as the cause of die-offs , establish ebolavirus geographical distribution , identify immunologically naïve populations , and determine whether apes survive virus exposure . Here we report the first successful noninvasive detection of antibodies against Ebola virus ( EBOV ) from wild ape feces . Using this method , we have been able to identify gorillas with antibodies to EBOV with an overall prevalence rate reaching 10% on average , demonstrating that EBOV exposure or infection is not uniformly lethal in this species . Furthermore , evidenc
Type III effectors are virulence factors of Gram-negative bacterial pathogens delivered directly into host cells by the type III secretion nanomachine where they manipulate host cell processes such as the innate immunity and gene expression . Here , we show that the novel type III effector XopL from the model plant pathogen Xanthomonas campestris pv . vesicatoria exhibits E3 ubiquitin ligase activity in vitro and in planta , induces plant cell death and subverts plant immunity . E3 ligase activity is associated with the C-terminal region of XopL , which specifically interacts with plant E2 ubiquitin conjugating enzymes and mediates formation of predominantly K11-linked polyubiquitin chains . The crystal structure of the XopL C-terminal domain revealed a single domain with a novel fold , termed XL-box , not present in any previously characterized E3 ligase . Mutation of amino acids in the central cavity of the XL-box disrupts E3 ligase activity and prevents XopL-induced plant cell death
The RV254 cohort of HIV-infected very early acute ( 4thG stage 1 and 2 ) ( stage 1/2 ) and late acute ( 4thG stage 3 ) ( stage 3 ) individuals was used to study T helper- B cell responses in acute HIV infection and the impact of early antiretroviral treatment ( ART ) on T and B cell function . To investigate this , the function of circulating T follicular helper cells ( cTfh ) from this cohort was examined , and cTfh and memory B cell populations were phenotyped . Impaired cTfh cell function was observed in individuals treated in stage 3 when compared to stage 1/2 . The cTfh/B cell cocultures showed lower B cell survival and IgG secretion at stage 3 compared to stage 1/2 . This coincided with lower IL-10 and increased RANTES and TNF-α suggesting a role for inflammation in altering cTfh and B cell responses . Elevated plasma viral load in stage 3 was found to correlate with decreased cTfh-mediated B cell IgG production indicating a role for increased viremia in cTfh impairment and dysfu
Schistosomiasis is a tropical parasitic disease afflicting ~200 million people worldwide and current therapy depends on a single drug ( praziquantel ) which exhibits several non-optimal features . These shortcomings underpin the need for next generation anthelmintics , but the process of validating physiologically relevant targets ( ‘target selection’ ) and pharmacologically profiling them is challenging . Remarkably , even though over a quarter of current human therapeutics target rhodopsin-like G protein coupled receptors ( GPCRs ) , no library screen of a flatworm GPCR has yet been reported . Here , we have pharmacologically profiled a schistosome serotonergic GPCR ( Sm . 5HTR ) implicated as a downstream modulator of PZQ efficacy , in a miniaturized screening assay compatible with high content screening . This approach employs a split luciferase based biosensor sensitive to cellular cAMP levels that resolves the proximal kinetics of GPCR modulation in intact cells . Data evidence a
The primordial organization of the metazoan body is achieved during gastrulation by the establishment of the germ layers . Adhesion differences between ectoderm , mesoderm , and endoderm cells could in principle be sufficient to maintain germ layer integrity and prevent intermixing . However , in organisms as diverse as fly , fish , or amphibian , the ectoderm-mesoderm boundary not only keeps these germ layers separated , but the ectoderm also serves as substratum for mesoderm migration , and the boundary must be compatible with repeated cell attachment and detachment . We show that localized detachment resulting from contact-induced signals at the boundary is at the core of ectoderm-mesoderm segregation . Cells alternate between adhesion and detachment , and detachment requires ephrinB/EphB signaling . Multiple ephrinB ligands and EphB receptors are expressed on each side of the boundary , and tissue separation depends on forward signaling across the boundary in both directions , invo
The number of diagnosed cases of Autism Spectrum Disorders ( ASD ) has increased dramatically over the last four decades; however , there is still considerable debate regarding the underlying pathophysiology of ASD . This lack of biological knowledge restricts diagnoses to be made based on behavioral observations and psychometric tools . However , physiological measurements should support these behavioral diagnoses in the future in order to enable earlier and more accurate diagnoses . Stepping towards this goal of incorporating biochemical data into ASD diagnosis , this paper analyzes measurements of metabolite concentrations of the folate-dependent one-carbon metabolism and transulfuration pathways taken from blood samples of 83 participants with ASD and 76 age-matched neurotypical peers . Fisher Discriminant Analysis enables multivariate classification of the participants as on the spectrum or neurotypical which results in 96 . 1% of all neurotypical participants being correctly iden
Leishmaniasis is endemic in 98 countries with an estimated 350 million people at risk and approximately 2 million cases annually . Brazil is one of the most severely affected countries . We applied Bayesian geostatistical negative binomial models to analyze reported incidence data of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil covering a 10-year period ( 2001–2010 ) . Particular emphasis was placed on spatial and temporal patterns . The models were fitted using integrated nested Laplace approximations to perform fast approximate Bayesian inference . Bayesian variable selection was employed to determine the most important climatic , environmental , and socioeconomic predictors of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis . For both types of leishmaniasis , precipitation and socioeconomic proxies were identified as important risk factors . The predicted number of cases in 2010 were 30 , 189 ( standard deviation [SD]: 7 , 676 ) for cutaneous leishmaniasis and 4 , 889 ( SD: 288 ) for viscera
As dengue spreads to new geographical regions and the force of infection changes in existing endemic areas , a greater breadth of clinical presentations is being recognised . Clinical experience suggests that adults manifest a pattern of complications different from those observed in children , but few reports have described the age-related spectrum of disease in contemporaneous groups of patients recruited at the same geographical location . Using detailed prospectively collected information from ongoing studies that encompass the full spectrum of hospitalised dengue cases admitted to a single hospital in southern Vietnam , we compared clinical and laboratory features , management , and outcome for 647 adults and 881 children with confirmed dengue . Signs of vascular leakage and shock were more frequent and more severe in children than adults , while bleeding manifestations and organ involvement were more common in adults . Additionally , adults experienced significantly more severe t
In contrast to HIV infection in humans and SIV in macaques , SIV infection of natural hosts including sooty mangabeys ( SM ) is non-pathogenic despite robust virus replication . We identified a novel SM CCR5 allele containing a two base pair deletion ( Δ2 ) encoding a truncated molecule that is not expressed on the cell surface and does not support SIV entry in vitro . The allele was present at a 26% frequency in a large SM colony , along with 3% for a CCR5Δ24 deletion allele that also abrogates surface expression . Overall , 8% of animals were homozygous for defective CCR5 alleles and 41% were heterozygous . The mutant allele was also present in wild SM in West Africa . CD8+ and CD4+ T cells displayed a gradient of CCR5 expression across genotype groups , which was highly significant for CD8+ cells . Remarkably , the prevalence of natural SIVsmm infection was not significantly different in animals lacking functional CCR5 compared to heterozygous and homozygous wild-type animals . Furt
The contribution of MEF2 TFs to the tumorigenic process is still mysterious . Here we clarify that MEF2 can support both pro-oncogenic or tumor suppressive activities depending on the interaction with co-activators or co-repressors partners . Through these interactions MEF2 supervise histone modifications associated with gene activation/repression , such as H3K4 methylation and H3K27 acetylation . Critical switches for the generation of a MEF2 repressive environment are class IIa HDACs . In leiomyosarcomas ( LMS ) , this two-faced trait of MEF2 is relevant for tumor aggressiveness . Class IIa HDACs are overexpressed in 22% of LMS , where high levels of MEF2 , HDAC4 and HDAC9 inversely correlate with overall survival . The knock out of HDAC9 suppresses the transformed phenotype of LMS cells , by restoring the transcriptional proficiency of some MEF2-target loci . HDAC9 coordinates also the demethylation of H3K4me3 at the promoters of MEF2-target genes . Moreover , we show that class IIa
Hydrophobins represent an important group of proteins from both a biological and nanotechnological standpoint . They are the means through which filamentous fungi affect their environment to promote growth , and their properties at interfaces have resulted in numerous applications . In our study we have combined protein docking , molecular dynamics simulation , and electron cryo-microscopy to gain atomistic level insight into the surface structure of films composed of two class II hydrophobins: HFBI and HFBII produced by Trichoderma reesei . Together our results suggest a unit cell composed of six proteins; however , our computational results suggest P6 symmetry , while our experimental results show P3 symmetry with a unit cell size of 56 Å . Our computational results indicate the possibility of an alternate ordering with a three protein unit cell with P3 symmetry and a smaller unit cell size , and we have used a Monte Carlo simulation of a spin model representing the hydrophobin film 
Aminoacyl tRNA synthetases are central enzymes required for protein synthesis . These enzymes are the known drug targets in bacteria and fungi . Here , we for the first time report the functional characterization of threonyl tRNA synthetase ( LdThrRS ) of Leishmania donovani , a protozoan parasite , the primary causative agent of visceral leishmaniasis . Recombinant LdThrRS ( rLdThrRS ) was expressed in E . coli and purified . The kinetic parameters for rLdThrRS were determined . The subcellular localization of LdThrRS was done by immunofluorescence analysis . Heterozygous mutants of LdThrRS were generated in Leishmania promastigotes . These genetically manipulated parasites were checked for their proliferation , virulence , aminoacylation activity and sensitivity to the known ThrRS inhibitor , borrelidin . An in silico generated structural model of L . donovani ThrRS was compared to that of human . Recombinant LdThrRS displayed aminoacylation activity , and the protein is possibly loc
Viral infection of mammalian cells triggers the innate immune response through non-self recognition of pathogen associated molecular patterns ( PAMPs ) in viral nucleic acid . Accurate PAMP discrimination is essential to avoid self recognition that can generate autoimmunity , and therefore should be facilitated by the presence of multiple motifs in a PAMP that mark it as non-self . Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) RNA is recognized as non-self by RIG-I through the presence of a 5′-triphosphate ( 5′-ppp ) on the viral RNA in association with a 3′ poly-U/UC tract . Here we define the HCV PAMP and the criteria for RIG-I non-self discrimination of HCV by examining the RNA structure-function attributes that impart PAMP function to the poly-U/UC tract . We found that the 34 nucleotide poly-uridine “core” of this sequence tract was essential for RIG-I activation , and that interspersed ribocytosine nucleotides between poly-U sequences in the RNA were required to achieve optimal RIG-I signal inductio
It has become increasingly clear that the functions of eosinophils extend beyond host defense and allergy to metabolism and tissue regeneration . These influences have strong potential to be relevant in worm infections in which eosinophils are prominent and parasites rely on the host for nutrients to support growth or reproduction . The aim of this study was to investigate the mechanism underlying the observation that eosinophils promote growth of Trichinella spiralis larvae in skeletal muscle . Our results indicate that IL-4 and eosinophils are necessary for normal larval growth and that eosinophils from IL-4 competent mice are sufficient to support growth . The eosinophil-mediated effect operates in the absence of adaptive immunity . Following invasion by newborn larvae , host gene expression in skeletal muscle was compatible with a regenerative response and a shift in the source of energy in infected tissue . The presence of eosinophils suppressed local inflammation while also influ
Genome-wide replication timing studies have suggested that mammalian chromosomes consist of megabase-scale domains of coordinated origin firing separated by large originless transition regions . Here , we report a quantitative genome-wide analysis of DNA replication kinetics in several human cell types that contradicts this view . DNA combing in HeLa cells sorted into four temporal compartments of S phase shows that replication origins are spaced at 40 kb intervals and fire as small clusters whose synchrony increases during S phase and that replication fork velocity ( mean 0 . 7 kb/min , maximum 2 . 0 kb/min ) remains constant and narrowly distributed through S phase . However , multi-scale analysis of a genome-wide replication timing profile shows a broad distribution of replication timing gradients with practically no regions larger than 100 kb replicating at less than 2 kb/min . Therefore , HeLa cells lack large regions of unidirectional fork progression . Temporal transition region
Our nervous system can efficiently recognize objects in spite of changes in contextual variables such as perspective or lighting conditions . Several lines of research have proposed that this ability for invariant recognition is learned by exploiting the fact that object identities typically vary more slowly in time than contextual variables or noise . Here , we study the question of how this “temporal stability” or “slowness” approach can be implemented within the limits of biologically realistic spike-based learning rules . We first show that slow feature analysis , an algorithm that is based on slowness , can be implemented in linear continuous model neurons by means of a modified Hebbian learning rule . This approach provides a link to the trace rule , which is another implementation of slowness learning . Then , we show analytically that for linear Poisson neurons , slowness learning can be implemented by spike-timing–dependent plasticity ( STDP ) with a specific learning window .
Understanding intrinsic and acquired resistance is crucial to overcoming cancer chemotherapy failure . While it is well-established that intratumor , subclonal genetic and phenotypic heterogeneity significantly contribute to resistance , it is not fully understood how tumor sub-clones interact with each other to withstand therapy pressure . Here , we report a previously unrecognized behavior in heterogeneous tumors: cooperative adaptation to therapy ( CAT ) , in which cancer cells induce co-resistant phenotypes in neighboring cancer cells when exposed to cancer therapy . Using a CRISPR/Cas9 toolkit we engineered phenotypically diverse non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) cells by conferring mutations in Dicer1 , a type III cytoplasmic endoribonuclease involved in small non-coding RNA genesis . We monitored three-dimensional growth dynamics of fluorescently-labeled mutant and/or wild-type cells individually or in co-culture using a substrate-free NanoCulture system under unstimulated or
Rickettsioses are endemic in sub-Sahara Africa . Burden of disease , risk factors and transmission are hitherto sparsely described . From the EMINI ( Evaluating and Monitoring the Impact of New Interventions ) population cohort , we randomly selected 1 , 228 persons above the age of 5 years from the nine participating communities in Mbeya region , Southwestern Tanzania , stratified by age , altitude of residence and ownership of domestic mammals , to conduct a cross-sectional seroprevalence study in . The aim was to estimate the seroprevalence of IgG antibodies against Spotted Fever Group ( SFG ) rickettsiae and to assess socioeconomic and environmental risk factors . Serology ( indirect immunofluorescence ) was performed at a dilution of 1:64 . SFG-seropositivity in the cohort was found to be 67 . 9% ( range among nine sites: 42 . 8–91 . 4% ) . Multivariable analysis revealed an association with age ( prevalence ratio , PR per 10 years: 1 . 08; 95% CI 1 . 06–1 . 10 ) , warmer temperat
Fatty acids affect a number of physiological processes , in addition to forming the building blocks of membranes and body fat stores . In this study , we uncover a role for the monounsaturated fatty acid oleate in the innate immune response of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans . From an RNAi screen for regulators of innate immune defense genes , we identified the two stearoyl-coenzyme A desaturases that synthesize oleate in C . elegans . We show that the synthesis of oleate is necessary for the pathogen-mediated induction of immune defense genes . Accordingly , C . elegans deficient in oleate production are hypersusceptible to infection with diverse human pathogens , which can be rescued by the addition of exogenous oleate . However , oleate is not sufficient to drive protective immune activation . Together , these data add to the known health-promoting effects of monounsaturated fatty acids , and suggest an ancient link between nutrient stores , metabolism , and host susceptibility 
Riboswitches are regulatory elements modulating gene expression in response to specific metabolite binding . It has been recently reported that riboswitch agonists may exhibit antimicrobial properties by binding to the riboswitch domain . Guanine riboswitches are involved in the regulation of transport and biosynthesis of purine metabolites , which are critical for the nucleotides cellular pool . Upon guanine binding , these riboswitches stabilize a 5′-untranslated mRNA structure that causes transcription attenuation of the downstream open reading frame . In principle , any agonistic compound targeting a guanine riboswitch could cause gene repression even when the cell is starved for guanine . Antibiotics binding to riboswitches provide novel antimicrobial compounds that can be rationally designed from riboswitch crystal structures . Using this , we have identified a pyrimidine compound ( PC1 ) binding guanine riboswitches that shows bactericidal activity against a subgroup of bacteria
To elucidate how gaze informs the construction of mental space during wayfinding in visual species like primates , we jointly examined navigation behavior , visual exploration , and hippocampal activity as macaque monkeys searched a virtual reality maze for a reward . Cells sensitive to place also responded to one or more variables like head direction , point of gaze , or task context . Many cells fired at the sight ( and in anticipation ) of a single landmark in a viewpoint- or task-dependent manner , simultaneously encoding the animal’s logical situation within a set of actions leading to the goal . Overall , hippocampal activity was best fit by a fine-grained state space comprising current position , view , and action contexts . Our findings indicate that counterparts of rodent place cells in primates embody multidimensional , task-situated knowledge pertaining to the target of gaze , therein supporting self-awareness in the construction of space . 
The isthmic organizer mediating differentiation of mid- and hindbrain during vertebrate development is characterized by a well-defined pattern of locally restricted gene expression domains around the mid-hindbrain boundary ( MHB ) . This pattern is established and maintained by a regulatory network between several transcription and secreted factors that is not yet understood in full detail . In this contribution we show that a Boolean analysis of the characteristic spatial gene expression patterns at the murine MHB reveals key regulatory interactions in this network . Our analysis employs techniques from computational logic for the minimization of Boolean functions . This approach allows us to predict also the interplay of the various regulatory interactions . In particular , we predict a maintaining , rather than inducing , effect of Fgf8 on Wnt1 expression , an issue that remained unclear from published data . Using mouse anterior neural plate/tube explant cultures , we provide exper
The apicomplexan parasite Theileria annulata transforms infected host cells , inducing uncontrolled proliferation and clonal expansion of the parasitized cell population . Shortly after sporozoite entry into the target cell , the surrounding host cell membrane is dissolved and an array of host cell microtubules ( MTs ) surrounds the parasite , which develops into the transforming schizont . The latter does not egress to invade and transform other cells . Instead , it remains tethered to host cell MTs and , during mitosis and cytokinesis , engages the cell's astral and central spindle MTs to secure its distribution between the two daughter cells . The molecular mechanism by which the schizont recruits and stabilizes host cell MTs is not known . MT minus ends are mostly anchored in the MT organizing center , while the plus ends explore the cellular space , switching constantly between phases of growth and shrinkage ( called dynamic instability ) . Assuming the plus ends of growing MTs pr
Broken replication forks result in DNA breaks that are normally repaired via homologous recombination or break induced replication ( BIR ) . Mild insufficiency in the replicative ligase Cdc9 in budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae resulted in a population of cells with persistent DNA damage , most likely due to broken replication forks , constitutive activation of the DNA damage checkpoint and longer telomeres . This telomere lengthening required functional telomerase , the core DNA damage signaling cascade Mec1-Rad9-Rad53 , and the components of the BIR repair pathway – Rad51 , Rad52 , Pol32 , and Pif1 . The Mec1-Rad53 induced phosphorylation of Pif1 , previously found necessary for inhibition of telomerase at double strand breaks , was also important for the role of Pif1 in BIR and telomere elongation in cdc9-1 cells . Two other mutants with impaired DNA replication , cdc44-5 and rrm3Δ , were similar to cdc9-1: their long telomere phenotype was dependent on the Pif1 phosphorylation
Onchocerciasis , an infection caused by the filarial nematode Onchocerca volvulus , is a major public health concern . Given the debilitating symptoms associated with onchocerciasis and concerns about recrudescence in areas of previous onchocerciasis control , more efficient tools are needed for diagnosis and monitoring of control measures . We investigated whether luciferase immunoprecipitation systems ( LIPS ) may be used as a more rapid , specific , and standardized diagnostic assay for Onchocerca volvulus infection . Four recombinantly produced Onchocerca volvulus antigens ( Ov-FAR-1 , Ov-API-1 , Ov-MSA-1 and Ov-CPI-1 ) were tested by LIPS on a large cohort of blinded sera comprised of both uninfected controls and patients with a proven parasitic infection including Onchocerca volvulus ( Ov ) , Wuchereria bancrofti ( Wb ) , Loa loa ( Ll ) , Strongyloides stercoralis ( Ss ) , and with other potentially cross-reactive infections . In addition to testing all four Ov antigens separatel
Intermittent iron-folic acid supplementation and regular de-worming are effective initiatives to reduce anemia , iron deficiency , iron deficiency anemia , and soil transmitted helminth infections in women of reproductive age . However , few studies have assessed the long-term effectiveness of population-based interventions delivered in resource-constrained settings . The objectives were to evaluate the impact of weekly iron-folic acid supplementation and de-worming on mean hemoglobin and the prevalence of anaemia , iron deficiency , and soil transmitted helminth infection in a rural population of women in northern Vietnam and to identify predictive factors for hematological outcomes . A prospective cohort design was used to evaluate a population-based supplementation and deworming program over 54 months . The 389 participants were enrolled just prior to commencement of the intervention . After 54 months 76% ( 95% CI [68% , 84%] ) were taking the iron-folic acid supplement and 95% ( 95
Cell-mediated immunity plays a key role in host control of viral infection . This is exemplified by life-threatening reactivations of e . g . herpesviruses in individuals with impaired T-cell and/or iNKT cell responses . To allow lifelong persistence and virus production in the face of primed immunity , herpesviruses exploit immune evasion strategies . These include a reduction in viral antigen expression during latency and a number of escape mechanisms that target antigen presentation pathways . Given the plethora of foreign antigens expressed in virus-producing cells , herpesviruses are conceivably most vulnerable to elimination by cell-mediated immunity during the replicative phase of infection . Here , we show that a prototypic herpesvirus , Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) , encodes a novel , broadly acting immunoevasin , gp150 , that is expressed during the late phase of viral replication . In particular , EBV gp150 inhibits antigen presentation by HLA class I , HLA class II , and the 
The translocated actin recruiting phosphoprotein ( Tarp ) is conserved among all pathogenic chlamydial species . Previous reports identified single C . trachomatis Tarp actin binding and proline rich domains required for Tarp mediated actin nucleation . A peptide antiserum specific for the Tarp actin binding domain was generated and inhibited actin polymerization in vitro and C . trachomatis entry in vivo , indicating an essential role for Tarp in chlamydial pathogenesis . Sequence analysis of Tarp orthologs from additional chlamydial species and C . trachomatis serovars indicated multiple putative actin binding sites . In order to determine whether the identified actin binding domains are functionally conserved , GST-Tarp fusions from multiple chlamydial species were examined for their ability to bind and nucleate actin . Chlamydial Tarps harbored variable numbers of actin binding sites and promoted actin nucleation as determined by in vitro polymerization assays . Our findings indica
Schistosomiasis japonica is a zoonosis with a number of mammalian species acting as reservoir hosts , including water buffaloes which can contribute up to 75% to human transmission in the People's Republic of China . Determining prevalence and intensity of Schistosoma japonicum in mammalian hosts is important for calculating transmission rates and determining environmental contamination . A new procedure , the formalin–ethyl acetate sedimentation-digestion ( FEA–SD ) technique , for increased visualization of S . japonicum eggs in bovine feces , is described that is an effective technique for identifying and quantifying S . japonicum eggs in fecal samples from naturally infected Chinese water buffaloes and from carabao ( water buffalo ) in the Philippines . The procedure involves filtration , sedimentation , potassium hydroxide digestion and centrifugation steps prior to microscopy . Bulk debris , including the dense cellulosic material present in bovine feces , often obscures schistos
Mutations in the genes encoding cartilage associated protein ( CRTAP ) and prolyl 3-hydroxylase 1 ( P3H1 encoded by LEPRE1 ) were the first identified causes of recessive Osteogenesis Imperfecta ( OI ) . These proteins , together with cyclophilin B ( encoded by PPIB ) , form a complex that 3-hydroxylates a single proline residue on the α1 ( I ) chain ( Pro986 ) and has cis/trans isomerase ( PPIase ) activity essential for proper collagen folding . Recent data suggest that prolyl 3-hydroxylation of Pro986 is not required for the structural stability of collagen; however , the absence of this post-translational modification may disrupt protein-protein interactions integral for proper collagen folding and lead to collagen over-modification . P3H1 and CRTAP stabilize each other and absence of one results in degradation of the other . Hence , hypomorphic or loss of function mutations of either gene cause loss of the whole complex and its associated functions . The relative contribution of l
In a classic example of the invasion of a species by a selfish genetic element , the P-element was horizontally transferred from a distantly related species into Drosophila melanogaster . Despite causing ‘hybrid dysgenesis’ , a syndrome of abnormal phenotypes that include sterility , the P-element spread globally in the course of a few decades in D . melanogaster . Until recently , its sister species , including D . simulans , remained P-element free . Here , we find a hybrid dysgenesis-like phenotype in the offspring of crosses between D . simulans strains collected in different years; a survey of 181 strains shows that around 20% of strains induce hybrid dysgenesis . Using genomic and transcriptomic data , we show that this dysgenesis-inducing phenotype is associated with the invasion of the P-element . To characterize this invasion temporally and geographically , we survey 631 D . simulans strains collected on three continents and over 27 years for the presence of the P-element . We
Recent interest in male-based sterile insect technique ( SIT ) and incompatible insect technique ( IIT ) to control Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus populations has revealed the need for an economical , rapid diagnostic tool for determining dispersion and mating success of sterilized males in the wild . Previous reports from other insects indicated rhodamine B , a thiol-reactive fluorescent dye , administered via sugar-feeding can be used to stain the body tissue and seminal fluid of insects . Here , we report on the adaptation of this technique for male Ae . aegypti to allow for rapid assessment of competitiveness ( mating success ) during field releases . Marking was achieved by feeding males on 0 . 1 , 0 . 2 , 0 . 4 or 0 . 8% rhodamine B ( w/v ) in 50% honey solutions during free flight . All concentrations produced >95% transfer to females and successful body marking after 4 days of feeding , with 0 . 4 and 0 . 8% solutions producing the longest-lasting body marking . Importantly
Bacterial superantigens , a diverse family of toxins , induce an inflammatory cytokine storm that can lead to lethal shock . CD28 is a homodimer expressed on T cells that functions as the principal costimulatory ligand in the immune response through an interaction with its B7 coligands , yet we show here that to elicit inflammatory cytokine gene expression and toxicity , superantigens must bind directly into the dimer interface of CD28 . Preventing access of the superantigen to CD28 suffices to block its lethality . Mice were protected from lethal superantigen challenge by short peptide mimetics of the CD28 dimer interface and by peptides selected to compete with the superantigen for its binding site in CD28 . Superantigens use a conserved β-strand/hinge/α-helix domain of hitherto unknown function to engage CD28 . Mutation of this superantigen domain abolished inflammatory cytokine gene induction and lethality . Structural analysis showed that when a superantigen binds to the T cell re
Understanding the mechanisms regulating cell cycle , proliferation and potency of pluripotent stem cells guarantees their safe use in the clinic . Embryonic stem cells ( ESCs ) present a fast cell cycle with a short G1 phase . This is due to the lack of expression of cell cycle inhibitors , which ultimately determines naïve pluripotency by holding back differentiation . The canonical Wnt/β-catenin pathway controls mESC pluripotency via the Wnt-effector Tcf3 . However , if the activity of the Wnt/β-catenin controls the cell cycle of mESCs remains unknown . Here we show that the Wnt-effector Tcf1 is recruited to and triggers transcription of the Ink4/Arf tumor suppressor locus . Thereby , the activation of the Wnt pathway , a known mitogenic pathway in somatic tissues , restores G1 phase and drastically reduces proliferation of mESCs without perturbing pluripotency . Tcf1 , but not Tcf3 , is recruited to a palindromic motif enriched in the promoter of cell cycle repressor genes , such as
Dengue displays a broad spectrum of clinical manifestations that may vary from asymptomatic to severe and even fatal features . Plasma leakage/hemorrhages can be caused by a cytokine storm induced by monocytes and dendritic cells during dengue virus ( DENV ) replication . Plasmacytoid dendritic cells ( pDCs ) are innate immune cells and in response to virus exposure secrete IFN-α and express membrane TRAIL ( mTRAIL ) . We aimed to characterize pDC activation in dengue patients and their function under DENV-2 stimulation in vitro . Flow cytometry analysis ( FCA ) revealed that pDCs of mild dengue patients exhibit significantly higher frequencies of mTRAIL compared to severe cases or healthy controls . Plasma levels of IFN-α and soluble TRAIL are increased in mild compared to severe dengue patients , positively correlating with pDC activation . FCA experiments showed that in vitro exposure to DENV-2 induced mTRAIL expression on pDC . Furthermore , three dimension microscopy highlighted t
The immune response to Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) infection is complex . Experimental evidence has revealed that tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) plays a major role in host defense against Mtb in both active and latent phases of infection . TNF-neutralizing drugs used to treat inflammatory disorders have been reported to increase the risk of tuberculosis ( TB ) , in accordance with animal studies . The present study takes a computational approach toward characterizing the role of TNF in protection against the tubercle bacillus in both active and latent infection . We extend our previous mathematical models to investigate the roles and production of soluble ( sTNF ) and transmembrane TNF ( tmTNF ) . We analyze effects of anti-TNF therapy in virtual clinical trials ( VCTs ) by simulating two of the most commonly used therapies , anti-TNF antibody and TNF receptor fusion , predicting mechanisms that explain observed differences in TB reactivation rates . The major findings from this 
Gene retroposition leads to considerable genetic variation between individuals . Recent studies revealed the presence of at least 208 retroduplication variations ( RDVs ) , a class of polymorphisms , in which a retrocopy is present or absent from individual genomes . Most of these RDVs resulted from recent retroduplications . In this study , we used the results of Phase 1 from the 1000 Genomes Project to investigate the variation in loss of ancestral ( i . e . shared with other primates ) retrocopies among different human populations . In addition , we examined retrocopy expression levels using RNA-Seq data derived from the Ilumina BodyMap project , as well as data from lymphoblastoid cell lines provided by the Geuvadis Consortium . We also developed a new approach to detect novel retrocopies absent from the reference human genome . We experimentally confirmed the existence of the detected retrocopies and determined their presence or absence in the human genomes of 17 different populat
Neurocysticercosis ( NCC ) , infection of the central nervous system by Taenia solium cysticerci , is a pleomorphic disease . Inflammation around cysticerci is the major cause of disease but is variably present . One factor modulating the inflammatory responses may be the location and characteristics of the brain tissue adjacent to cysticerci . We analyzed and compared the inflammatory responses to cysticerci located in the parenchyma to those in the meninges or cysticerci partially in contact with both the parenchyma and the meninges ( corticomeningeal ) . Histological specimens of brain cysticerci ( n = 196 ) from 11 pigs naturally infected with Taenia solium cysticerci were used . Four pigs were sacrificed after 2 days and four after 5 days of a single dose of praziquantel; 3 pigs did not receive treatment . All pigs were intravenously injected with Evans Blue to assess disruption of the blood-brain barrier . The degree of inflammation was estimated by use of a histological score ( 
Yaws , caused by Treponema pallidum ssp . pertenue , is reportedly endemic in Ghana . Mass distribution of azithromycin is now the cornerstone of the WHO yaws eradication campaign . Mass distribution of azithromycin at a lower target dose was previously undertaken in two regions of Ghana for the control of trachoma . Ongoing reporting of yaws raises the possibility that resistance may have emerged in T . pallidum pertenue , or that alternative infections may be responsible for some of the reported cases . We conducted a cross-sectional survey in thirty communities in two districts of Ghana where MDA for trachoma had previously been conducted . Children aged 5–17 years with ulcerative lesions compatible with yaws were enrolled . Samples for treponemal serology and lesion PCR were collected from all children . 90 children with 98 lesions were enrolled . Syphilis serology was negative in all of them . PCR for T . pallidum ssp pertenue was negative in all children , but Haemophilus ducreyi
Despite advances in the treatment of HIV infection with ART , elucidating strategies to overcome HIV persistence , including blockade of viral reservoir establishment , maintenance , and expansion , remains a challenge . T cell homeostasis is a major driver of HIV persistence . Cytokines involved in regulating homeostasis of memory T cells , the major hub of the HIV reservoir , trigger the Jak-STAT pathway . We evaluated the ability of tofacitinib and ruxolitinib , two FDA-approved Jak inhibitors , to block seeding and maintenance of the HIV reservoir in vitro . We provide direct demonstration for involvement of the Jak-STAT pathway in HIV persistence in vivo , ex vivo , and in vitro; pSTAT5 strongly correlates with increased levels of integrated viral DNA in vivo , and in vitro Jak inhibitors reduce the frequency of CD4+ T cells harboring integrated HIV DNA . We show that Jak inhibitors block viral production from infected cells , inhibit γ-C receptor cytokine ( IL-15 ) -induced viral
Spodoptera exigua microarray was used to determine genes differentially expressed in S . exigua cells challenged with the species-specific baculovirus SeMNPV as well as with a generalist baculovirus , AcMNPV . Microarray results revealed that , in contrast to the host transcriptional shut-off that is expected during baculovirus infection , S . exigua cells showed a balanced number of up- and down-regulated genes during the first 36 hours following the infection . Many immune-related genes , including pattern recognition proteins , genes involved in signalling and immune pathways as well as immune effectors and genes coding for proteins involved in the melanization cascade were found to be down-regulated after baculovirus infection . The down-regulation of immune-related genes was confirmed in the larval gut . The expression of immune-related genes in the gut is known to affect the status of gut microorganisms , many of which are responsible for growth and development functions . We the
Apomixis , or asexual clonal reproduction through seeds , is of immense interest due to its potential application in agriculture . One key element of apomixis is apomeiosis , a deregulation of meiosis that results in a mitotic-like division . We isolated and characterised a novel gene that is directly involved in controlling entry into the second meiotic division . By combining a mutation in this gene with two others that affect key meiotic processes , we created a genotype called MiMe in which meiosis is totally replaced by mitosis . The obtained plants produce functional diploid gametes that are genetically identical to their mother . The creation of the MiMe genotype and apomeiosis phenotype is an important step towards understanding and engineering apomixis . 
The prioritization of candidate disease-causing genes is a fundamental challenge in the post-genomic era . Current state of the art methods exploit a protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) network for this task . They are based on the observation that genes causing phenotypically-similar diseases tend to lie close to one another in a PPI network . However , to date , these methods have used a static picture of human PPIs , while diseases impact specific tissues in which the PPI networks may be dramatically different . Here , for the first time , we perform a large-scale assessment of the contribution of tissue-specific information to gene prioritization . By integrating tissue-specific gene expression data with PPI information , we construct tissue-specific PPI networks for 60 tissues and investigate their prioritization power . We find that tissue-specific PPI networks considerably improve the prioritization results compared to those obtained using a generic PPI network . Furthermore , t
We develop a flexible , two-locus model for the spread of insecticide resistance applicable to mosquito species that transmit human diseases such as malaria . The model allows differential exposure of males and females , allows them to encounter high or low concentrations of insecticide , and allows selection pressures and dominance values to differ depending on the concentration of insecticide encountered . We demonstrate its application by investigating the relative merits of sequential use of insecticides versus their deployment as a mixture to minimise the spread of resistance . We recover previously published results as subsets of this model and conduct a sensitivity analysis over an extensive parameter space to identify what circumstances favour mixtures over sequences . Both strategies lasted more than 500 mosquito generations ( or about 40 years ) in 24% of runs , while in those runs where resistance had spread to high levels by 500 generations , 56% favoured sequential use and
Triatomines are hematophagous insects that act as vectors of Chagas disease . Rhodnius neglectus is one of these kissing bugs found , contributing to the transmission of this American trypanosomiasis . The saliva of hematophagous arthropods contains bioactive molecules responsible for counteracting host haemostatic , inflammatory , and immune responses . Next generation sequencing and mass spectrometry-based protein identification were performed to investigate the content of triatomine R . neglectus saliva . We deposited 4 , 230 coding DNA sequences ( CDS ) in GenBank . A set of 636 CDS of proteins of putative secretory nature was extracted from the assembled reads , 73 of them confirmed by proteomic analysis . The sialome of R . neglectus was characterized and serine protease transcripts detected . The presence of ubiquitous protein families was revealed , including lipocalins , serine protease inhibitors , and antigen-5 . Metalloproteases , disintegrins , and odorant binding protein 
With the post-genomic era came a dramatic increase in high-throughput technologies , of which transcriptional profiling by microarrays was one of the most popular . One application of this technology is to identify genes that are differentially expressed in response to different environmental conditions . These experiments are constructed under the assumption that the differentially expressed genes are functionally important in the environment where they are induced . However , whether differential expression is predictive of functional importance has yet to be tested . Here we have addressed this expectation by employing Caenorhabditis elegans as a model for the interaction of native soil nematode taxa and soil bacteria . Using transcriptional profiling , we identified candidate genes regulated in response to different bacteria isolated in association with grassland nematodes or from grassland soils . Many of the regulated candidate genes are predicted to affect metabolism and innate 
A critical event in mammalian embryo development is construction of an inner cell mass surrounded by a trophoectoderm ( a shell of cells that later form extraembryonic structures ) . We utilize multi-scale , stochastic modeling to investigate the design principles responsible for robust establishment of these structures . This investigation makes three predictions , each supported by our quantitative imaging . First , stochasticity in the expression of critical genes promotes cell plasticity and has a critical role in accurately organizing the developing mouse blastocyst . Second , asymmetry in the levels of noise variation ( expression fluctuation ) of Cdx2 and Oct4 provides a means to gain the benefits of noise-mediated plasticity while ameliorating the potentially detrimental effects of stochasticity . Finally , by controlling the timing and pace of cell fate specification , the embryo temporally modulates plasticity and creates a time window during which each cell can continually r
Structural flexibility in germline gene-encoded antibodies allows promiscuous binding to diverse antigens . The binding affinity and specificity for a particular epitope typically increase as antibody genes acquire somatic mutations in antigen-stimulated B cells . In this work , we investigated whether germline gene-encoded antibodies are optimal for polyspecificity by determining the basis for recognition of diverse antigens by antibodies encoded by three VH gene segments . Panels of somatically mutated antibodies encoded by a common VH gene , but each binding to a different antigen , were computationally redesigned to predict antibodies that could engage multiple antigens at once . The Rosetta multi-state design process predicted antibody sequences for the entire heavy chain variable region , including framework , CDR1 , and CDR2 mutations . The predicted sequences matched the germline gene sequences to a remarkable degree , revealing by computational design the residues that are pre
Locusts exhibit two interconvertible behavioral phases , solitarious and gregarious . While solitarious individuals are repelled from other locusts , gregarious insects are attracted to conspecifics and can form large aggregations such as marching hopper bands . Numerous biological experiments at the individual level have shown how crowding biases conversion towards the gregarious form . To understand the formation of marching locust hopper bands , we study phase change at the collective level , and in a quantitative framework . Specifically , we construct a partial integrodifferential equation model incorporating the interplay between phase change and spatial movement at the individual level in order to predict the dynamics of hopper band formation at the population level . Stability analysis of our model reveals conditions for an outbreak , characterized by a large scale transition to the gregarious phase . A model reduction enables quantification of the temporal dynamics of each pha
Viral membrane fusion proceeds through a sequence of steps that are driven by triggered conformational changes of viral envelope glycoproteins , so-called fusion proteins . Although high-resolution structural snapshots of viral fusion proteins in their prefusion and postfusion conformations are available , it has been difficult to define intermediate structures of the fusion pathway because of their transient nature . Flaviviruses possess a class II viral fusion protein ( E ) mediating fusion at acidic pH that is converted from a dimer to a trimer with a hairpin-like structure during the fusion process . Here we show for tick-borne encephalitis virus that exposure of virions to alkaline instead of acidic pH traps the particles in an intermediate conformation in which the E dimers dissociate and interact with target membranes via the fusion peptide without proceeding to the merger of the membranes . Further treatment to low pH , however , leads to fusion , suggesting that these monomers
It is widely recognized that we are entering an extinction event on a scale approaching the mass extinctions seen in the fossil record . Present-day rates of extinction are estimated to be several orders of magnitude greater than background rates and are projected to increase further if current trends continue . In vertebrates , species traits , such as body size , fecundity , and geographic range , are important predictors of vulnerability . Although plants are the basis for life on Earth , our knowledge of plant extinctions and vulnerabilities is lagging . Here , we disentangle the underlying drivers of extinction risk in plants , focusing on the Cape of South Africa , a global biodiversity hotspot . By comparing Red List data for the British and South African floras , we demonstrate that the taxonomic distribution of extinction risk differs significantly between regions , inconsistent with a simple , trait-based model of extinction . Using a comprehensive phylogenetic tree for the C
Phagocytosis of the opportunistic fungal pathogen Candida albicans by cells of the innate immune system is vital to prevent infection . Dectin-1 is the major phagocytic receptor involved in anti-fungal immunity . We identify two new interacting proteins of Dectin-1 in macrophages , Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase ( BTK ) and Vav1 . BTK and Vav1 are recruited to phagocytic cups containing C . albicans yeasts or hyphae but are absent from mature phagosomes . BTK and Vav1 localize to cuff regions surrounding the hyphae , while Dectin-1 lines the full length of the phagosome . BTK and Vav1 colocalize with the lipid PI ( 3 , 4 , 5 ) P3 and F-actin at the phagocytic cup , but not with diacylglycerol ( DAG ) which marks more mature phagosomal membranes . Using a selective BTK inhibitor , we show that BTK contributes to DAG synthesis at the phagocytic cup and the subsequent recruitment of PKCε . BTK- or Vav1-deficient peritoneal macrophages display a defect in both zymosan and C . albicans phagocytos
Rift Valley fever ( RVF ) is a vector-borne disease affecting ruminants and humans . Madagascar was heavily affected by RVF in 2008–2009 , with evidence of a large and heterogeneous spread of the disease . The identification of at-risk environments is essential to optimize the available resources by targeting RVF surveillance in Madagascar . Herein , the objectives of our study were: ( i ) to identify the environmental factors and areas favorable to RVF transmission to both cattle and human and ( ii ) to identify human behaviors favoring human infections in Malagasy contexts . First , we characterized the environments of Malagasy communes using a Multiple Factor Analysis ( MFA ) . Then , we analyzed cattle and human serological data collected at national level using Generalized Linear Mixed Models , with the individual serological status ( cattle or human ) as the response , and MFA factors , as well as other potential risk factors ( cattle density , human behavior ) as explanatory var
Prions are self-propagating protein conformations . Transmission of the prion state between non-identical proteins , e . g . between homologous proteins from different species , is frequently inefficient . Transmission barriers are attributed to sequence differences in prion proteins , but their underlying mechanisms are not clear . Here we use a yeast Rnq1/[PIN+]-based experimental system to explore the nature of transmission barriers . [PIN+] , the prion form of Rnq1 , is common in wild and laboratory yeast strains , where it facilitates the appearance of other prions . Rnq1's prion domain carries four discrete QN-rich regions . We start by showing that Rnq1 encompasses multiple prion determinants that can independently drive amyloid formation in vitro and transmit the [PIN+] prion state in vivo . Subsequent analysis of [PIN+] transmission between Rnq1 fragments with different sets of prion determinants established that ( i ) one common QN-rich region is required and usually sufficie
Given genomic variation data from multiple individuals , computing the likelihood of complex population genetic models is often infeasible . To circumvent this problem , we introduce a novel likelihood-free inference framework by applying deep learning , a powerful modern technique in machine learning . Deep learning makes use of multilayer neural networks to learn a feature-based function from the input ( e . g . , hundreds of correlated summary statistics of data ) to the output ( e . g . , population genetic parameters of interest ) . We demonstrate that deep learning can be effectively employed for population genetic inference and learning informative features of data . As a concrete application , we focus on the challenging problem of jointly inferring natural selection and demography ( in the form of a population size change history ) . Our method is able to separate the global nature of demography from the local nature of selection , without sequential steps for these two factor
Persistent expression of high-risk HPV oncogenes is necessary for the development of anogenital and oropharyngeal cancers . Here , we show that E6/E7 expressing cells are hypersensitive to DNA crosslinking agent cisplatin and have defects in repairing DNA interstrand crosslinks ( ICL ) . Importantly , we elucidate how E6/E7 attenuate the Fanconi anemia ( FA ) DNA crosslink repair pathway . Though E6/E7 activated the pathway by increasing FancD2 monoubiquitination and foci formation , they inhibited the completion of the repair by multiple mechanisms . E6/E7 impaired FancD2 colocalization with double-strand breaks ( DSB ) , which subsequently hindered the recruitment of the downstream protein Rad51 to DSB in E6 cells . Further , E6 expression caused delayed FancD2 de-ubiquitination , an important process for effective ICL repair . Delayed FancD2 de-ubiquitination was associated with the increased chromatin retention of FancD2 hindering USP1 de-ubiquitinating activity , and persistently 
The Southern Chiapas focus of onchocerciasis in Southern Mexico represents one of the major onchocerciasis foci in Latin America . All 559 endemic communities of this focus have undergone semi-annual mass treatment with ivermectin since 1998 . In 50 communities of this focus , ivermectin frequency shifted from twice to four times a year in 2003; an additional 113 communities were added to the quarterly treatment regimen in 2009 to achieve a rapid suppression of transmission . In-depth epidemiologic and entomologic assessments were performed in six sentinel communities ( which had undergone 2 rounds of ivermectin treatment per year ) and three extra-sentinel communities ( which had undergone 4 rounds of ivermectin treatment per year ) . None of the 67 , 924 Simulium ochraceum s . l . collected from this focus during the dry season of 2011 were found to contain parasite DNA when tested by polymerase chain reaction-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( PCR-ELISA ) , resulting in an upper bo
Listeria monocytogenes is a Gram-positive facultative intracellular bacterial pathogen that invades mammalian cells and escapes from membrane-bound vacuoles to replicate within the host cell cytosol . Gene products required for intracellular bacterial growth and bacterial spread to adjacent cells are regulated by a transcriptional activator known as PrfA . PrfA becomes activated following L . monocytogenes entry into host cells , however the signal that stimulates PrfA activation has not yet been defined . Here we provide evidence for L . monocytogenes secretion of a small peptide pheromone , pPplA , which enhances the escape of L . monocytogenes from host cell vacuoles and may facilitate PrfA activation . The pPplA pheromone is generated via the proteolytic processing of the PplA lipoprotein secretion signal peptide . While the PplA lipoprotein is dispensable for pathogenesis , bacteria lacking the pPplA pheromone are significantly attenuated for virulence in mice and have a reduced e
Bacterial pathogens are highly adaptable organisms , a quality that enables them to overcome changing hostile environments . For example , Vibrio cholerae , the causative agent of cholera , is able to colonize host small intestines and combat host-produced reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) during infection . To dissect the molecular mechanisms utilized by V . cholerae to overcome ROS in vivo , we performed a whole-genome transposon sequencing analysis ( Tn-seq ) by comparing gene requirements for colonization using adult mice with and without the treatment of the antioxidant , N-acetyl cysteine . We found that mutants of the methyl-directed mismatch repair ( MMR ) system , such as MutS , displayed significant colonization advantages in untreated , ROS-rich mice , but not in NAC-treated mice . Further analyses suggest that the accumulation of both catalase-overproducing mutants and rugose colony variants in NAC- mice was the leading cause of mutS mutant enrichment caused by oxidative stre
Mlh1-Mlh3 is an endonuclease hypothesized to act in meiosis to resolve double Holliday junctions into crossovers . It also plays a minor role in eukaryotic DNA mismatch repair ( MMR ) . To understand how Mlh1-Mlh3 functions in both meiosis and MMR , we analyzed in baker’s yeast 60 new mlh3 alleles . Five alleles specifically disrupted MMR , whereas one ( mlh3-32 ) specifically disrupted meiotic crossing over . Mlh1-mlh3 representatives for each class were purified and characterized . Both Mlh1-mlh3-32 ( MMR+ , crossover- ) and Mlh1-mlh3-45 ( MMR- , crossover+ ) displayed wild-type endonuclease activities in vitro . Msh2-Msh3 , an MSH complex that acts with Mlh1-Mlh3 in MMR , stimulated the endonuclease activity of Mlh1-mlh3-32 but not Mlh1-mlh3-45 , suggesting that Mlh1-mlh3-45 is defective in MSH interactions . Whole genome recombination maps were constructed for wild-type and MMR+ crossover- , MMR- crossover+ , endonuclease defective and null mlh3 mutants in an S288c/YJM789 hybrid ba
Intense use of antibiotics for the treatment of diseases such as tuberculosis , malaria , Staphylococcus aureus or gonorrhea has led to rapidly increasing population levels of drug resistance . This has generally necessitated a switch to new drugs and the discontinuation of older ones , after which resistance often only declines slowly or even persists indefinitely . These long-term effects are usually ascribed to low fitness costs of resistance in absence of the drug . Here we show that structure in the host population , in particular heterogeneity in number of contacts , also plays an important role in the reversion dynamics . Host contact structure acts both during the phase of intense treatment , leading to non-random distributions of the resistant strain among the infected population , and after the discontinuation of the drug , by affecting the competition dynamics resulting in a mitigation of fitness advantages . As a consequence , we observe both a lower rate of reversion and a
Autism spectrum disorders ( ASDs ) are highly heritable and characterised by deficits in social interaction and communication , as well as restricted and repetitive behaviours . Although a number of highly penetrant ASD gene variants have been identified , there is growing evidence to support a causal role for combinatorial effects arising from the contributions of multiple loci . By examining synaptic and circadian neurological phenotypes resulting from the dosage variants of unique human:fly orthologues in Drosophila , we observe numerous synergistic interactions between pairs of informatically-identified candidate genes whose orthologues are jointly affected by large de novo copy number variants ( CNVs ) . These CNVs were found in the genomes of individuals with autism , including a patient carrying a 22q11 . 2 deletion . We first demonstrate that dosage alterations of the unique Drosophila orthologues of candidate genes from de novo CNVs that harbour only a single candidate gene di
There is significant evidence that brain-infiltrating CD8+ T cells play a central role in the development of experimental cerebral malaria ( ECM ) during Plasmodium berghei ANKA infection of C57BL/6 mice . However , the mechanisms through which they mediate their pathogenic activity during malaria infection remain poorly understood . Utilizing intravital two-photon microscopy combined with detailed ex vivo flow cytometric analysis , we show that brain-infiltrating T cells accumulate within the perivascular spaces of brains of mice infected with both ECM-inducing ( P . berghei ANKA ) and non-inducing ( P . berghei NK65 ) infections . However , perivascular T cells displayed an arrested behavior specifically during P . berghei ANKA infection , despite the brain-accumulating CD8+ T cells exhibiting comparable activation phenotypes during both infections . We observed T cells forming long-term cognate interactions with CX3CR1-bearing antigen presenting cells within the brains during P . be
Tungiasis is a parasitic disease caused by the sand flea Tunga penetrans also known as jigger flea . Communities living in precarious conditions in tropical and sub tropical countries bear the brunt of the infection . The main objective of this study was to determine the burden of Tungiasis in Vihiga County in Kenya . This was a cross-sectional study conducted in 21 villages in 3 Sub-locations in Vihiga County , western Kenya . A total of 437 participants , 5 years old and above were clinically examined for the presence of tungiasis after consenting to take part in the study . Diagnosis was made following standard methods . A semi- structured questionnaire was administered to assess socio-demographic factors , housing , presence and ownership of animals , knowledge and practice related to tungiasis . Data were analyzed using bivariate and multivariate regression analysis . GIS was used to map the geographic distribution of tungiasis in the area . The overall prevalence was found to be 
An auxin maximum is positioned along the xylem axis of the Arabidopsis root tip . The pattern depends on mutual feedback between auxin and cytokinins mediated by the PIN class of auxin efflux transporters and AHP6 , an inhibitor of cytokinin signalling . This interaction has been proposed to regulate the size and the position of the hormones’ respective signalling domains and specify distinct boundaries between them . To understand the dynamics of this regulatory network , we implemented a parsimonious computational model of auxin transport that considers hormonal regulation of the auxin transporters within a spatial context , explicitly taking into account cell shape and polarity and the presence of cell walls . Our analysis reveals that an informative spatial pattern in cytokinin levels generated by diffusion is a theoretically unlikely scenario . Furthermore , our model shows that such a pattern is not required for correct and robust auxin patterning . Instead , auxin-dependent modi
Gene expression changes in neural systems are essential for environment-induced behavioral plasticity in animals; however , neuronal signaling pathways mediating the effect of external stimuli on transcriptional changes are largely unknown . Recently , we have demonstrated that the neuropeptide F ( NPF ) /nitric oxide ( NO ) signaling pathway plays a regulatory role in phase-related locomotor plasticity in the migratory locust , Locusta migratoria . Here , we report that a conserved transcription factor , cAMP response element-binding protein B ( CREB-B ) , is a key mediator involved in the signaling pathway from NPF2 to NOS in the migratory locust , triggering locomotor activity shift between solitarious and gregarious phases . We find that CREB-B directly activates brain NOS expression by interacting with NOS promoter region . The phosphorylation at serine 110 site of CREB-B dynamically changes in response to population density variation and is negatively controlled by NPF2 . The inv
The earliest stages of development in most metazoans are driven by maternally deposited proteins and mRNAs , with widespread transcriptional activation of the zygotic genome occurring hours after fertilization , at a period known as the maternal-to-zygotic transition ( MZT ) . In Drosophila , the MZT is preceded by the transcription of a small number of genes that initiate sex determination , patterning , and other early developmental processes; and the zinc-finger protein Zelda ( ZLD ) plays a key role in their transcriptional activation . To better understand the mechanisms of ZLD activation and the range of its targets , we used chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled with high-throughput sequencing ( ChIP-Seq ) to map regions bound by ZLD before ( mitotic cycle 8 ) , during ( mitotic cycle 13 ) , and after ( late mitotic cycle 14 ) the MZT . Although only a handful of genes are transcribed prior to mitotic cycle 10 , we identified thousands of regions bound by ZLD in cycle 8 embryos 
Essentially all biological processes depend on protein–protein interactions ( PPIs ) . Timing of such interactions is crucial for regulatory function . Although circadian ( ∼24-hour ) clocks constitute fundamental cellular timing mechanisms regulating important physiological processes , PPI dynamics on this timescale are largely unknown . Here , we identified 109 novel PPIs among circadian clock proteins via a yeast-two-hybrid approach . Among them , the interaction of protein phosphatase 1 and CLOCK/BMAL1 was found to result in BMAL1 destabilization . We constructed a dynamic circadian PPI network predicting the PPI timing using circadian expression data . Systematic circadian phenotyping ( RNAi and overexpression ) suggests a crucial role for components involved in dynamic interactions . Systems analysis of a global dynamic network in liver revealed that interacting proteins are expressed at similar times likely to restrict regulatory interactions to specific phases . Moreover , we p
Nematode polyprotein allergens ( NPAs ) are an unusual class of lipid-binding proteins found only in nematodes . They are synthesized as large , tandemly repetitive polyproteins that are post-translationally cleaved into multiple copies of small lipid binding proteins with virtually identical fatty acid and retinol ( Vitamin A ) -binding characteristics . They are probably central to transport and distribution of small hydrophobic compounds between the tissues of nematodes , and may play key roles in nutrient scavenging , immunomodulation , and IgE antibody-based responses in infection . In some species the repeating units are diverse in amino acid sequence , but , in ascarid and filarial nematodes , many of the units are identical or near-identical . ABA-1A is the most common repeating unit of the NPA of Ascaris suum , and is closely similar to that of Ascaris lumbricoides , the large intestinal roundworm of humans . Immune responses to NPAs have been associated with naturally-acquire
Ciguatera is a type of fish poisoning that occurs throughout the tropics , particularly in vulnerable island communities such as the developing Pacific Island Countries and Territories ( PICTs ) . After consuming ciguatoxin-contaminated fish , people report a range of acute neurologic , gastrointestinal , and cardiac symptoms , with some experiencing chronic neurologic symptoms lasting weeks to months . Unfortunately , the true extent of illness and its impact on human communities and ecosystem health are still poorly understood . A questionnaire was emailed to the Health and Fisheries Authorities of the PICTs to quantify the extent of ciguatera . The data were analyzed using t-test , incidence rate ratios , ranked correlation , and regression analysis . There were 39 , 677 reported cases from 17 PICTs , with a mean annual incidence of 194 cases per 100 , 000 people across the region from 1998–2008 compared to the reported annual incidence of 104/100 , 000 from 1973–1983 . There has be
Chagas disease is caused by Trypanosoma cruzi . The persistence of the parasite is associated with the disease chronicity and the impairment of the cellular immune response . It has been reported that the CD4+CD8+ T cell population expands in chronic Chagas disease patients . Few studies have focused on this subset of cells , and very little is known about the impact of antiparasitic treatment on this population . Thirty-eight chronic Chagas disease patients ( 20 asymptomatic and 18 symptomatic ) and twelve healthy controls were enrolled in this study . Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were stimulated with soluble T . cruzi antigens to analyze the production of cytokines and cytotoxic molecules by CD4+CD8+ T cells before and after benznidazole treatment . Additionally , expression and co-expression of five inhibitory receptors in these patients after treatment were studied using a multiparameter flow cytometry technique . The frequency of CD4+CD8+ T cells was higher in chronic Chagas
Phosphoinositides represent important lipid signals in the plant development and stress response . However , multiple isoforms of the phosphoinositide biosynthetic genes hamper our understanding of the pivotal enzymes in each step of the pathway as well as their roles in plant growth and development . Here , we report that phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C2 ( AtPLC2 ) is the primary phospholipase in phosphoinositide metabolism and is involved in seedling growth and the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) stress responses in Arabidopsis thaliana . Lipidomic profiling of multiple plc mutants showed that the plc2-1 mutant increased levels of its substrates phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate and phosphatidylinositol 4 , 5-bisphosphate , suggesting that the major phosphoinositide metabolic pathway is impaired . AtPLC2 displayed a distinct tissue expression pattern and localized at the plasma membrane in different cell types , where phosphoinositide signaling occurs . The seedlings of plc2-1 
Reductionism assumes that causation in the physical world occurs at the micro level , excluding the emergence of macro-level causation . We challenge this reductionist assumption by employing a principled , well-defined measure of intrinsic cause-effect power–integrated information ( Φ ) , and showing that , according to this measure , it is possible for a macro level to “beat” the micro level . Simple systems were evaluated for Φ across different spatial and temporal scales by systematically considering all possible black boxes . These are macro elements that consist of one or more micro elements over one or more micro updates . Cause-effect power was evaluated based on the inputs and outputs of the black boxes , ignoring the internal micro elements that support their input-output function . We show how black-box elements can have more common inputs and outputs than the corresponding micro elements , revealing the emergence of high-order mechanisms and joint constraints that are not a
Reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) produced in the mitochondrial respiratory chain ( RC ) are primary signals that modulate cellular adaptation to environment , and are also destructive factors that damage cells under the conditions of hypoxia/reoxygenation relevant for various systemic diseases or transplantation . The important role of ROS in cell survival requires detailed investigation of mechanism and determinants of ROS production . To perform such an investigation we extended our rule-based model of complex III in order to account for electron transport in the whole RC coupled to proton translocation , transmembrane electrochemical potential generation , TCA cycle reactions , and substrate transport to mitochondria . It fits respiratory electron fluxes measured in rat brain mitochondria fueled by succinate or pyruvate and malate , and the dynamics of NAD+ reduction by reverse electron transport from succinate through complex I . The fitting of measured characteristics gave an insig
Intracellular transport is an essential function in eucaryotic cells , facilitated by motor proteins—proteins converting chemical energy into kinetic energy . It is understood that motor proteins work in teams enabling unidirectional and bidirectional transport of intracellular cargo over long distances . Disruptions of the underlying transport mechanisms , often caused by mutations that alter single motor characteristics , are known to cause neurodegenerative diseases . For example , phosphorylation of kinesin motor domain at the serine residue is implicated in Huntington’s disease , with a recent study of phosphorylated and phosphomimetic serine residues indicating lowered single motor stalling forces . In this article we report the effects of mutations of this nature on transport properties of cargo carried by multiple wild-type and mutant motors . Results indicate that mutants with altered stall forces might determine the average velocity and run-length even when they are outnumber
Behavioral experiments are usually designed to tap into a specific cognitive function , but animals may solve a given task through a variety of different and individual behavioral strategies , some of them not foreseen by the experimenter . Animal learning may therefore be seen more as the process of selecting among , and adapting , potential behavioral policies , rather than mere strengthening of associative links . Calcium influx through high-voltage-gated Ca2+ channels is central to synaptic plasticity , and altered expression of Cav1 . 2 channels and the CACNA1C gene have been associated with severe learning deficits and psychiatric disorders . Given this , we were interested in how specifically a selective functional ablation of the Cacna1c gene would modulate the learning process . Using a detailed , individual-level analysis of learning on an operant cue discrimination task in terms of behavioral strategies , combined with Bayesian selection among computational models estimated 
Aedes aegypti mosquitoes infected with Wolbachia bacteria are currently being released for arbovirus suppression around the world . Their potential to invade populations and persist will depend on interactions with environmental conditions , particularly as larvae are often exposed to fluctuating and extreme temperatures in the field . We reared Ae . aegypti larvae infected with different types of Wolbachia ( wMel , wAlbB and wMelPop-CLA ) under diurnal cyclical temperatures . Rearing wMel and wMelPop-CLA-infected larvae at 26–37°C reduced the expression of cytoplasmic incompatibility , a reproductive manipulation induced by Wolbachia . We also observed a sharp reduction in the density of Wolbachia in adults . Furthermore , the wMel and wMelPop-CLA infections were not transmitted to the next generation when mosquitoes were exposed to 26–37°C across all life stages . In contrast , the wAlbB infection was maintained at a high density , exhibited complete cytoplasmic incompatibility , and
Adenoviruses are important human pathogens that have been developed as vectors for gene therapies and genetic vaccines . Previous studies indicated that human infections with adenoviruses are self-limiting in immunocompetent hosts with evidence of some persistence in adenoid tissue . We sought to better understand the natural history of adenovirus infections in various non-human primates and discovered that healthy populations of great apes ( chimpanzees , bonobos , gorillas , and orangutans ) and macaques shed substantial quantities of infectious adenoviruses in stool . Shedding in stools from asymptomatic humans was found to be much less frequent , comparable to frequencies reported before . We purified and fully sequenced 30 novel adenoviruses from apes and 3 novel adenoviruses from macaques . Analyses of the new ape adenovirus sequences ( as well as the 4 chimpanzee adenovirus sequences we have previously reported ) together with 22 complete adenovirus genomes available from GenBan
The eukaryotic genome is packaged into a nucleus in the form of chromatin . The fundamental structural unit of chromatin is a protein-DNA complex , the nucleosome , where 146 or 147 base pairs of DNA wrap 1 . 75 times around a histone core . To function in cellular processes , however , nucleosomal DNA must be unwrapped . Although this unwrapping has been experimentally investigated , details of the process at an atomic level are not yet well understood . Here , we used molecular dynamics simulation with an enhanced sampling method to calculate the free energy profiles for unwrapping the outer superhelical turn of nucleosomal DNA . A free energy change of about 11 . 5 kcal/mol for the unwrapping agrees well with values obtained in single molecule experiments . This simulation revealed a variety of conformational states , indicating there are many potential paths to outer superhelicdal turn unwrapping , but the dominant path is likely asymmetric . At one end of the DNA , the first five 
Environmental insults such as oxidative stress can damage cell membranes . Lysosomes are particularly sensitive to membrane permeabilization since their function depends on intraluminal acidic pH and requires stable membrane-dependent proton gradients . Among the catalog of oxidative stress-responsive genes is the Lipocalin Apolipoprotein D ( ApoD ) , an extracellular lipid binding protein endowed with antioxidant capacity . Within the nervous system , cell types in the defense frontline , such as astrocytes , secrete ApoD to help neurons cope with the challenge . The protecting role of ApoD is known from cellular to organism level , and many of its downstream effects , including optimization of autophagy upon neurodegeneration , have been described . However , we still cannot assign a cellular mechanism to ApoD gene that explains how this protection is accomplished . Here we perform a comprehensive analysis of ApoD intracellular traffic and demonstrate its role in lysosomal pH homeost
Phlebotomus orientalis Parrot ( Diptera: Psychodidae ) is the main vector of visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) caused by Leishmania donovani in East Africa . Here we report on life cycle parameters and susceptibility to L . donovani of two P . orientalis colonies originating from different sites in Ethiopia: a non-endemic site in the lowlands - Melka Werer ( MW ) , and an endemic focus of human VL in the highlands - Addis Zemen ( AZ ) . Marked differences in life-cycle parameters between the two colonies included distinct requirements for larval food and humidity during pupation . However , analyses using Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA ( RAPD ) PCR and DNA sequencing of cytB and COI mitochondrial genes did not reveal any genetic differences . F1 hybrids developed successfully with higher fecundity than the parental colonies . Susceptibility of P . orientalis to L . donovani was studied by experimental infections . Even the lowest infective dose tested ( 2×103 per ml ) was sufficient for 
The Chinese government lists advanced schistosomiasis as a leading healthcare priority due to its serious health and economic impacts , yet it has not been included in the estimates of schistosomiasis burden in the Global Burden of Disease ( GBD ) study . Therefore , the quality of life and disability weight ( DW ) for the advanced cases of schistosomiasis japonica have to be taken into account in the re-estimation of burden of disease due to schistosomiasis . A patient-based quality-of-life evaluation was performed for advanced schistosomiasis japonica . Suspected or officially registered advanced cases in a Schistosoma japonicum-hyperendemic county of the People's Republic of China ( P . R . China ) were screened using a short questionnaire and physical examination . Disability and morbidity were assessed in confirmed cases , using the European quality of life questionnaire with an additional cognitive dimension ( known as the “EQ-5D plus” ) , ultrasonography , and laboratory testing
Human African Trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) , also referred to as sleeping sickness , and African Animal Trypanosomaisis ( AAT ) , known as nagana , are highly prevalent parasitic vector-borne diseases in sub-Saharan Africa . Humans acquire trypanosomiasis following the bite of a tsetse fly infected with the protozoa Trypanosoma brucei ( T . b . ) spp . –i . e . , T . b . gambiense in West and Central Africa and T . b . rhodesiense in East and Southern Africa . Over the last decade HAT diagnostic capacity to estimate HAT prevalence has improved in active case-finding areas but enhanced passive surveillance programs are still lacking in much of rural sub-Saharan Africa . This retrospective-cross-sectional study examined the use of national census data ( 1999 ) to estimate population vulnerability and disability in Kenya's 7 tsetse belts to assess the potential of HAT-acquired infection in those areas . A multilevel study design estimated the likelihood of disability in individuals , nested wi
Hexamethylene bisacetamide ( HMBA ) is a potent inducer of cell differentiation and HIV production in chronically infected cells . However , its mechanism of action remains poorly defined . In this study , we demonstrate that HMBA activates transiently the PI3K/Akt pathway , which leads to the phosphorylation of HEXIM1 and the subsequent release of active positive transcription elongation factor b ( P-TEFb ) from its transcriptionally inactive complex with HEXIM1 and 7SK small nuclear RNA ( snRNA ) . As a result , P-TEFb is recruited to the HIV promoter to stimulate transcription elongation and viral production . Despite the continuous presence of HMBA , the released P-TEFb reassembles rapidly with 7SK snRNA and HEXIM1 . In contrast , a mutant HEXIM1 protein that cannot be phosphorylated and released from P-TEFb and 7SK snRNA via the PI3K/Akt pathway antagonizes this HMBA-mediated induction of viral production . Thus , our studies reveal how HIV transcription is induced by HMBA and sug
Patients suffering from cutaneous leishmaniasis ( CL ) caused by New World Leishmania ( Viannia ) species are at high risk of developing mucosal ( ML ) or disseminated cutaneous leishmaniasis ( DCL ) . After the formation of a primary skin lesion at the site of the bite by a Leishmania-infected sand fly , the infection can disseminate to form secondary lesions . This metastatic phenotype causes significant morbidity and is often associated with a hyper-inflammatory immune response leading to the destruction of nasopharyngeal tissues in ML , and appearance of nodules or numerous ulcerated skin lesions in DCL . Recently , we connected this aggressive phenotype to the presence of Leishmania RNA virus ( LRV ) in strains of L . guyanensis , showing that LRV is responsible for elevated parasitaemia , destructive hyper-inflammation and an overall exacerbation of the disease . Further studies of this relationship and the distribution of LRVs in other Leishmania strains and species would benefi
Enteropathogenic and enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli ( EPEC and EHEC ) are closely-related pathogens that attach tightly to intestinal epithelial cells , efface microvilli , and promote cytoskeletal rearrangements into protrusions called actin pedestals . To trigger pedestal formation , EPEC employs the tyrosine phosphorylated transmembrane receptor Tir , while EHEC relies on the multivalent scaffolding protein EspFU . The ability to generate these structures correlates with bacterial colonization in several animal models , but the precise function of pedestals in infection remains unclear . To address this uncertainty , we characterized the colonization properties of EPEC and EHEC during infection of polarized epithelial cells . We found that EPEC and EHEC both formed distinct bacterial communities , or “macrocolonies , ” that encompassed multiple host cells . Tir and EspFU , as well as the host Arp2/3 complex , were all critical for the expansion of macrocolonies over time . Unexp
Robust protocols for the isolation of extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) from the rest of their excretory-secretory products are necessary for downstream studies and application development . The most widely used purification method of EVs for helminth pathogens is currently differential centrifugation ( DC ) . In contrast , size exclusion chromatography ( SEC ) has been included in the purification pipeline for EVs from other pathogens , highlighting there is not an agreed research community ‘gold standard’ for EV isolation . In this case study , Fasciola hepatica from natural populations were cultured in order to collect EVs from culture media and evaluate a SEC or DC approach to pathogen helminth EV purification . Transmission electron and atomic force microscopy demonstrated that EVs prepared by SEC were both smaller in size and less diverse than EV resolved by DC . Protein quantification and Western blotting further demonstrated that SEC purification realised a higher EV purity to fre
Systems biology proceeds through repeated cycles of experiment and modeling . One way to implement this is reverse engineering , where models are fit to data to infer and analyse regulatory mechanisms . This requires rigorous methods to determine whether model parameters can be properly identified . Applying such methods in a complex biological context remains challenging . We use reverse engineering to study post-transcriptional regulation in pattern formation . As a case study , we analyse expression of the gap genes Krüppel , knirps , and giant in Drosophila melanogaster . We use detailed , quantitative datasets of gap gene mRNA and protein expression to solve and fit a model of post-transcriptional regulation , and establish its structural and practical identifiability . Our results demonstrate that post-transcriptional regulation is not required for patterning in this system , but is necessary for proper control of protein levels . Our work demonstrates that the uniqueness and spe
Rotavirus is a major cause of diarrhea worldwide and exhibits a pronounced small intestinal epithelial cell ( IEC ) tropism . Both human infants and neonatal mice are highly susceptible , whereas adult individuals remain asymptomatic and shed only low numbers of viral particles . Here we investigated age-dependent mechanisms of the intestinal epithelial innate immune response to rotavirus infection in an oral mouse infection model . Expression of the innate immune receptor for viral dsRNA , Toll-like receptor ( Tlr ) 3 was low in the epithelium of suckling mice but strongly increased during the postnatal period inversely correlating with rotavirus susceptibility , viral shedding and histological damage . Adult mice deficient in Tlr3 ( Tlr3−/− ) or the adaptor molecule Trif ( TrifLps2/Lps2 ) exerted significantly higher viral shedding and decreased epithelial expression of proinflammatory and antiviral genes as compared to wild-type animals . In contrast , neonatal mice deficient in Tlr
We report on results from whole-exome sequencing ( WES ) of 1 , 039 subjects diagnosed with autism spectrum disorders ( ASD ) and 870 controls selected from the NIMH repository to be of similar ancestry to cases . The WES data came from two centers using different methods to produce sequence and to call variants from it . Therefore , an initial goal was to ensure the distribution of rare variation was similar for data from different centers . This proved straightforward by filtering called variants by fraction of missing data , read depth , and balance of alternative to reference reads . Results were evaluated using seven samples sequenced at both centers and by results from the association study . Next we addressed how the data and/or results from the centers should be combined . Gene-based analyses of association was an obvious choice , but should statistics for association be combined across centers ( meta-analysis ) or should data be combined and then analyzed ( mega-analysis ) ? B
Madurella mycetomatis is the most prevalent causative agent of eumycetoma in Sudan , an infection characterized by the formation of grains . Many patients are exposed to the causative agent , however only a small number develop infection . M . mycetomatis contains chitin in its cell wall , which can trigger the human immune system . Polymorphisms in the genes encoding for the chitin-degrading enzymes chitotriosidase and AMCase were described , resulting in altered chitinase activity . We investigated the association between 4 of these polymorphisms and the incidence of M . mycetomatis mycetoma in a Sudanese population . Polymorphisms studied in 112 eumycetoma patients and 103 matched controls included a 24-bp insertion in the chitotriosidase gene ( rs3831317 ) , resulting in impaired chitinase activity and single nucleotide polymorphism ( SNP ) in the AMCase gene ( rs61756687 ) , resulting in decreased AMCase activity . Also , a SNP ( rs41282492 ) and a 10-bp insertion in the 5’UTR reg
Herpes simplex virus ( HSV ) has provided the prototype for viral latency with previously well-defined acute or lytic and latent phases . More recently , the deep quiescence of HSV latency has been questioned with evidence that lytic genes can be transcribed in this state . However , to date the only evidence that these transcripts might be translated has come from immunological studies that show activated T cells persist in the nervous system during latency . Here we use a highly sensitive Cre-marking model to show that lytic and latent phases are less clearly defined in two significant ways . First , around half of the HSV spread leading to latently infected sites occurred beyond the initial acute infection and second , we show direct evidence that lytic promoters can drive protein expression during latency . 
Misfolding and aggregation of host proteins are important features of the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer’s disease , Parkinson’s disease , frontotemporal dementia and prion diseases . In all these diseases , the misfolded protein increases in amount by a mechanism involving seeded polymerization . In prion diseases , host prion protein is misfolded to form a pathogenic protease-resistant form , PrPSc , which accumulates in neurons , astroglia and microglia in the CNS . Here using dual-staining immunohistochemistry , we compared the cell specificity of PrPSc accumulation at early preclinical times post-infection using three mouse scrapie strains that differ in brain regional pathology . PrPSc from each strain had a different pattern of cell specificity . Strain 22L was mainly associated with astroglia , whereas strain ME7 was mainly associated with neurons and neuropil . In thalamus and cortex , strain RML was similar to 22L , but in substantia nigra , RM
The 3D organization of chromosomes is crucial for regulating gene expression and cell function . Many experimental and polymer modeling efforts are dedicated to deciphering the mechanistic principles behind chromosome folding . Chromosomes are long and densely packed—topologically constrained—polymers . The main challenges are therefore to develop adequate models and simulation methods to investigate properly the multi spatio-temporal scales of such macromolecules . Here , we proposed a generic strategy to develop efficient coarse-grained models for self-avoiding polymers on a lattice . Accounting accurately for the polymer entanglement length and the volumic density , we show that our simulation scheme not only captures the steady-state structural and dynamical properties of the system but also tracks the same dynamics at different coarse-graining . This strategy allows a strong power-law gain in numerical efficiency and offers a systematic way to define reliable coarse-grained null m
Genetic variants in cis-regulatory elements or trans-acting regulators frequently influence the quantity and spatiotemporal distribution of gene transcription . Recent interest in expression quantitative trait locus ( eQTL ) mapping has paralleled the adoption of genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) for the analysis of complex traits and disease in humans . Under the hypothesis that many GWAS associations tag non-coding SNPs with small effects , and that these SNPs exert phenotypic control by modifying gene expression , it has become common to interpret GWAS associations using eQTL data . To fully exploit the mechanistic interpretability of eQTL-GWAS comparisons , an improved understanding of the genetic architecture and causal mechanisms of cell type specificity of eQTLs is required . We address this need by performing an eQTL analysis in three parts: first we identified eQTLs from eleven studies on seven cell types; then we integrated eQTL data with cis-regulatory element ( CRE )
Over the last decade , multiple broadly neutralizing monoclonal antibodies ( bN-mAbs ) to the HIV-1 envelope protein ( Env ) gp120 have been described . Many of these recognize epitopes consisting of both amino acid and glycan residues . Moreover , the glycans required for binding of these bN-mAbs are early intermediates in the N-linked glycosylation pathway . This type of glycosylation substantially alters the mass and net charge of Envs compared to molecules with the same amino acid sequence but possessing mature , complex ( sialic acid–containing ) carbohydrates . Since cell lines suitable for biopharmaceutical production that limit N-linked glycosylation to mannose-5 ( Man5 ) or earlier intermediates are not readily available , the production of vaccine immunogens displaying these glycan-dependent epitopes has been challenging . Here , we report the development of a stable suspension-adapted Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cell line that limits glycosylation to Man5 and earlier inter
Parasitic nematodes are responsible for devastating illnesses that plague many of the world's poorest populations indigenous to the tropical areas of developing nations . Among these diseases is lymphatic filariasis , a major cause of permanent and long-term disability . Proteins essential to nematodes that do not have mammalian counterparts represent targets for therapeutic inhibitor discovery . One promising target is trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase ( T6PP ) from Brugia malayi . In the model nematode Caenorhabditis elegans , T6PP is essential for survival due to the toxic effect ( s ) of the accumulation of trehalose 6-phosphate . T6PP has also been shown to be essential in Mycobacterium tuberculosis . We determined the X-ray crystal structure of T6PP from B . malayi . The protein structure revealed a stabilizing N-terminal MIT-like domain and a catalytic C-terminal C2B-type HAD phosphatase fold . Structure-guided mutagenesis , combined with kinetic analyses using a designed compet
Cancers exhibit spatially heterogeneous , unique vascular architectures across individual samples , cell-lines and patients . This inherently disorganised collection of leaky blood vessels contribute significantly to suboptimal treatment efficacy . Preclinical tools are urgently required which incorporate the inherent variability and heterogeneity of tumours to optimise and engineer anti-cancer therapies . In this study , we present a novel computational framework which incorporates whole , realistic tumours extracted ex vivo to efficiently simulate vascular blood flow and interstitial fluid transport in silico for validation against in vivo biomedical imaging . Our model couples Poiseuille and Darcy descriptions of vascular and interstitial flow , respectively , and incorporates spatially heterogeneous blood vessel lumen and interstitial permeabilities to generate accurate predictions of tumour fluid dynamics . Our platform enables highly-controlled experiments to be performed which p
HIV is known to spread efficiently both in a cell-free state and from cell to cell , however the relative importance of the cell-cell transmission mode in natural infection has not yet been resolved . Likewise to what extent cell-cell transmission is vulnerable to inhibition by neutralizing antibodies and entry inhibitors remains to be determined . Here we report on neutralizing antibody activity during cell-cell transmission using specifically tailored experimental strategies which enable unambiguous discrimination between the two transmission routes . We demonstrate that the activity of neutralizing monoclonal antibodies ( mAbs ) and entry inhibitors during cell-cell transmission varies depending on their mode of action . While gp41 directed agents remain active , CD4 binding site ( CD4bs ) directed inhibitors , including the potent neutralizing mAb VRC01 , dramatically lose potency during cell-cell transmission . This implies that CD4bs mAbs act preferentially through blocking free 
Visual attention has many effects on neural responses , producing complex changes in firing rates , as well as modifying the structure and size of receptive fields , both in topological and feature space . Several existing models of attention suggest that these effects arise from selective modulation of neural inputs . However , anatomical and physiological observations suggest that attentional modulation targets higher levels of the visual system ( such as V4 or MT ) rather than input areas ( such as V1 ) . Here we propose a simple mechanism that explains how a top-down attentional modulation , falling on higher visual areas , can produce the observed effects of attention on neural responses . Our model requires only the existence of modulatory feedback connections between areas , and short-range lateral inhibition within each area . Feedback connections redistribute the top-down modulation to lower areas , which in turn alters the inputs of other higher-area cells , including those t
The posterior signalling centre ( PSC ) , a small group of specialised cells , controls hemocyte ( blood cell ) homeostasis in the Drosophila larval hematopoietic organ , the lymph gland . This role of the PSC is very reminiscent of the “niche , ” the micro-environment of hematopoietic stem cells in vertebrates . We have recently shown that the PSC acts in a non–cell-autonomous manner to maintain janus tyrosine kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription ( JAK/STAT ) signalling in hematopoietic progenitors ( prohemocytes ) , thereby preserving the multipotent character necessary for their differentiation into lamellocytes , a cryptic and dedicated immune cell type required to fight specific immune threats such as wasp parasitism . In this report , on the basis of a knock out generated by homologous recombination , we show that a short type I cytokine-related receptor CG14225/Latran is required for switching off JAK/STAT signalling in prohemocytes . This is a prerequisite 
Genetic recombination is an important process during the evolution of many virus species and occurs particularly frequently amongst begomoviruses in the single stranded DNA virus family , Geminiviridae . As in many other recombining viruses it is apparent that non-random recombination breakpoint distributions observable within begomovirus genomes sampled from nature are the product of variations both in basal recombination rates across genomes and in the over-all viability of different recombinant genomes . Whereas factors influencing basal recombination rates might include local degrees of sequence similarity between recombining genomes , nucleic acid secondary structures and genomic sensitivity to nuclease attack or breakage , the viability of recombinant genomes could be influenced by the degree to which their co-evolved protein-protein and protein-nucleotide and nucleotide-nucleotide interactions are disreputable by recombination . Here we investigate patterns of recombination that
Nucleosomes , the basic repeat units of eukaryotic chromatin , have been suggested to influence the evolution of eukaryotic genomes , both by altering the propensity of DNA to mutate and by selection acting to maintain or exclude nucleosomes in particular locations . Contrary to the popular idea that nucleosomes are unique to eukaryotes , histone proteins have also been discovered in some archaeal genomes . Archaeal nucleosomes , however , are quite unlike their eukaryotic counterparts in many respects , including their assembly into tetramers ( rather than octamers ) from histone proteins that lack N- and C-terminal tails . Here , we show that despite these fundamental differences the association between nucleosome footprints and sequence evolution is strikingly conserved between humans and the model archaeon Haloferax volcanii . In light of this finding we examine whether selection or mutation can explain concordant substitution patterns in the two kingdoms . Unexpectedly , we find t
Conformational diversity of the native state plays a central role in modulating protein function . The selection paradigm sustains that different ligands shift the conformational equilibrium through their binding to highest-affinity conformers . Intramolecular vibrational dynamics associated to each conformation should guarantee conformational transitions , which due to its importance , could possibly be associated with evolutionary conserved traits . Normal mode analysis , based on a coarse-grained model of the protein , can provide the required information to explore these features . Herein , we present a novel procedure to identify key positions sustaining the conformational diversity associated to ligand binding . The method is applied to an adequate refined dataset of 188 paired protein structures in their bound and unbound forms . Firstly , normal modes most involved in the conformational change are selected according to their corresponding overlap with structural distortions int
Metabolic pathways used by Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) to establish and maintain infections are important for our understanding of pathogenesis and the development of new chemotherapies . To investigate the role of fructose-1 , 6-bisphosphate aldolase ( FBA ) , we engineered an Mtb strain in which FBA levels were regulated by anhydrotetracycline . Depletion of FBA resulted in clearance of Mtb in both the acute and chronic phases of infection in vivo , and loss of viability in vitro when cultured on single carbon sources . Consistent with prior reports of Mtb's ability to co-catabolize multiple carbon sources , this in vitro essentiality could be overcome when cultured on mixtures of glycolytic and gluconeogenic carbon sources , enabling generation of an fba knockout ( Δfba ) . In vitro studies of Δfba however revealed that lack of FBA could only be compensated for by a specific balance of glucose and butyrate in which growth and metabolism of butyrate were determined by Mtb's ab
Two-cysteine peroxiredoxins are ubiquitous peroxidases that play various functions in cells . In Leishmania and related trypanosomatids , which lack catalase and selenium-glutathione peroxidases , the discovery of this family of enzymes provided the molecular basis for peroxide removal in these organisms . In this report the functional relevance of one of such enzymes , the mitochondrial 2-Cys peroxiredoxin ( mTXNPx ) , was investigated along the Leishmania infantum life cycle . mTXNPx null mutants ( mtxnpx− ) produced by a gene replacement strategy , while indistinguishable from wild type promastigotes , were found unable to thrive in a murine model of infection . Unexpectedly , however , the avirulent phenotype of mtxnpx− was not due to lack of the peroxidase activity of mTXNPx as these behaved like controls when exposed to oxidants added exogenously or generated by macrophages during phagocytosis ex vivo . In line with this , mtxnpx− were also avirulent when inoculated into murine h
The Histoplasma urine antigen ( HUAg ) is the preferred method to diagnose progressive disseminated histoplasmosis ( PDH ) in HIV patients . In 2007 , IMMY ALPHA Histoplasma EIA was approved for clinical for on-site use , and therefore useful for regions outside the United States . However , ALPHA-HUAg is considered inferior to the MVista-HUAg which is only available on referral . We aim to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of ALPHA-HUAg . We conducted a multicenter , prospective , diagnostic test study in two secondary and eight tertiary-care facilities in Mexico . We included HIV patient with PDH suspicion and evaluated ALPHA-HUAg diagnostic accuracy using as reference standard the Histoplasma capsulatum growth on blood , bone marrow , and tissue cultures or compatible histopathologic exam ( PDH–proven ) . We evaluated the results of 288 patients , 29 . 5% ( 85/288; 95% confidence interval [CI] , 24 . 3–35 . 1 ) had PDH . The sensitivity of ALPHA-HUAg was 67 . 1% ( 95% CI , 56–76 . 8%
Worldwide , approximately 1 . 8 million children die from diarrhea annually , and millions more suffer multiple episodes of nonfatal diarrhea . On average , in up to 40% of cases , no etiologic agent can be identified . The advent of metagenomic sequencing has enabled systematic and unbiased characterization of microbial populations; thus , metagenomic approaches have the potential to define the spectrum of viruses , including novel viruses , present in stool during episodes of acute diarrhea . The detection of novel or unexpected viruses would then enable investigations to assess whether these agents play a causal role in human diarrhea . In this study , we characterized the eukaryotic viral communities present in diarrhea specimens from 12 children by employing a strategy of “micro-mass sequencing” that entails minimal starting sample quantity ( <100 mg stool ) , minimal sample purification , and limited sequencing ( 384 reads per sample ) . Using this methodology we detected known e
Aedes-borne arboviruses continue to precipitate epidemics worldwide . In Dominican Republic , the appearance of Zika virus cases that closely followed a large dengue epidemic provided an opportunity to study the different transmission drivers behind these two flaviviruses . Retrospective datasets were used to collect information on the populations at risk and descriptive statistics were used to describe the outbreaks on a national scale . Expectedly , box plots showed that 75% of dengue was reported in those aged <20 years while Zika infections were more widely dispersed among the population . Dengue attack rates were marginally higher among males at 25 . 9 per 10 , 000 population vs . 21 . 5 per 10 , 000 population for females . Zika infections appeared to be highly clustered among females ( 73 . 8% ( 95% CI 72 . 6% , 75 . 0%; p<0 . 05 ) ) ; age-adjusted Zika attack rates among females were 7 . 64 per 10 , 000 population compared with 2 . 72 per 10 , 000 population among males . R0 ca
Poly ( ADP-ribose ) polymerases ( PARPs ) catalyze the transfer of multiple poly ( ADP-ribose ) units onto target proteins . Poly ( ADP-ribosyl ) ation plays a crucial role in a variety of cellular processes including , most prominently , auto-activation of PARP at sites of DNA breaks to activate DNA repair processes . In humans , PARP1 ( the founding and most characterized member of the PARP family ) accounts for more than 90% of overall cellular PARP activity in response to DNA damage . We have found that , in contrast with animals , in Arabidopsis thaliana PARP2 ( At4g02390 ) , rather than PARP1 ( At2g31320 ) , makes the greatest contribution to PARP activity and organismal viability in response to genotoxic stresses caused by bleomycin , mitomycin C or gamma-radiation . Plant PARP2 proteins carry SAP DNA binding motifs rather than the zinc finger domains common in plant and animal PARP1 proteins . PARP2 also makes stronger contributions than PARP1 to plant immune responses includin
The Pam/Highwire/RPM-1 ( PHR ) proteins are conserved intracellular signaling hubs that regulate synapse formation and axon termination . The C . elegans PHR protein , called RPM-1 , acts as a ubiquitin ligase to inhibit the DLK-1 and MLK-1 MAP kinase pathways . We have identified several kinases that are likely to form a new MAP kinase pathway that suppresses synapse formation defects , but not axon termination defects , in the mechanosensory neurons of rpm-1 mutants . This pathway includes: MIG-15 ( MAP4K ) , NSY-1 ( MAP3K ) , JKK-1 ( MAP2K ) and JNK-1 ( MAPK ) . Transgenic overexpression of kinases in the MIG-15/JNK-1 pathway is sufficient to impair synapse formation in wild-type animals . The MIG-15/JNK-1 pathway functions cell autonomously in the mechanosensory neurons , and these kinases localize to presynaptic terminals providing further evidence of a role in synapse development . Loss of MIG-15/JNK-1 signaling also suppresses defects in habituation to repeated mechanical stimul
A subset of transcription factors like Gli2 and Oct1 are bipotential — they can activate or repress the same target , in response to changing signals from upstream genes . Some previous studies implied that the sex-determination protein TRA-1 might also be bipotential; here we confirm this hypothesis by identifying a co-factor , and use it to explore how the structure of a bipotential switch changes during evolution . First , null mutants reveal that C . briggsae TRR-1 is required for spermatogenesis , RNA interference implies that it works as part of the Tip60 Histone Acetyl Transferase complex , and RT-PCR data show that it promotes the expression of Cbr-fog-3 , a gene needed for spermatogenesis . Second , epistasis tests reveal that TRR-1 works through TRA-1 , both to activate Cbr-fog-3 and to control the sperm/oocyte decision . Since previous studies showed that TRA-1 can repress fog-3 as well , these observations demonstrate that it is bipotential . Third , TRR-1 also regulates th
A recent measure of ‘integrated information’ , ΦDM , quantifies the extent to which a system generates more information than the sum of its parts as it transitions between states , possibly reflecting levels of consciousness generated by neural systems . However , ΦDM is defined only for discrete Markov systems , which are unusual in biology; as a result , ΦDM can rarely be measured in practice . Here , we describe two new measures , ΦE and ΦAR , that overcome these limitations and are easy to apply to time-series data . We use simulations to demonstrate the in-practice applicability of our measures , and to explore their properties . Our results provide new opportunities for examining information integration in real and model systems and carry implications for relations between integrated information , consciousness , and other neurocognitive processes . However , our findings pose challenges for theories that ascribe physical meaning to the measured quantities . 
The persistent spread of Rhodesian human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) in Uganda in recent years has increased concerns of a potential overlap with the Gambian form of the disease . Recent research has aimed to increase the evidence base for targeting control measures by focusing on the environmental and climatic factors that control the spatial distribution of the disease . One recent study used simple logistic regression methods to explore the relationship between prevalence of Rhodesian HAT and several social , environmental and climatic variables in two of the most recently affected districts of Uganda , and suggested the disease had spread into the study area due to the movement of infected , untreated livestock . Here we extend this study to account for spatial autocorrelation , incorporate uncertainty in input data and model parameters and undertake predictive mapping for risk of high HAT prevalence in future . Using a spatial analysis in which a generalised linear geostatisti
The consensus that complexity begets stability in ecosystems was challenged in the seventies , a result recently extended to ecologically-inspired networks . The approaches assume the existence of a feasible equilibrium , i . e . with positive abundances . However , this key assumption has not been tested . We provide analytical results complemented by simulations which show that equilibrium feasibility vanishes in species rich systems . This result leaves us in the uncomfortable situation in which the existence of a feasible equilibrium assumed in local stability criteria is far from granted . We extend our analyses by changing interaction structure and intensity , and find that feasibility and stability is warranted irrespective of species richness with weak interactions . Interestingly , we find that the dynamical behaviour of ecologically inspired architectures is very different and richer than that of unstructured systems . Our results suggest that a general understanding of ecosy
Evidence suggests that the intracellular bacterial pathogen Coxiella burnetii ( which causes Q fever ) is widespread , with a near global distribution . While there has been increasing attention to Q fever epidemiology in high-income settings , a recent systematic review highlighted significant gaps in our understanding of the prevalence , spatial distribution and risk factors for Q fever infection across Africa . This research aimed to provide a One Health assessment of Q fever epidemiology in parts of Western and Nyanza Provinces , Western Kenya , in cattle and humans . A cross-sectional survey was conducted: serum samples from 2049 humans and 955 cattle in 416 homesteads were analysed for C . burnetii antibodies . Questionnaires covering demographic , socio-economic and husbandry information were also administered . These data were linked to environmental datasets based on geographical locations ( e . g . , land cover ) . Correlation and spatial-cross correlation analyses were appli
Genome sequences are available for the human blood flukes , Schistosoma japonicum , S . mansoni and S . haematobium . Functional genomic approaches could aid in identifying the role and importance of these newly described schistosome genes . Transgenesis is established for functional genomics in model species , which can lead to gain- or loss-of-functions , facilitate vector-based RNA interference , and represents an effective forward genetics tool for insertional mutagenesis screens . Progress toward routine transgenesis in schistosomes might be expedited if germ cells could be reliably localized in cultured schistosomes . Vasa , a member of the ATP-dependent DEAD-box RNA helicase family , is a prototypic marker of primordial germ cells and the germ line in the Metazoa . Using bioinformatics , 33 putative DEAD-box RNA helicases exhibiting conserved motifs that characterize helicases of this family were identified in the S . mansoni genome . Moreover , three of the helicases exhibited 
Heart valve disease is a major clinical problem worldwide . Cardiac valve development and homeostasis need to be precisely controlled . Hippo signaling is essential for organ development and tissue homeostasis , while its role in valve formation and morphology maintenance remains unknown . VGLL4 is a transcription cofactor in vertebrates and we found it was mainly expressed in valve interstitial cells at the post-EMT stage and was maintained till the adult stage . Tissue specific knockout of VGLL4 in different cell lineages revealed that only loss of VGLL4 in endothelial cell lineage led to valve malformation with expanded expression of YAP targets . We further semi-knockout YAP in VGLL4 ablated hearts , and found hyper proliferation of arterial valve interstitial cells was significantly constrained . These findings suggest that VGLL4 is important for valve development and manipulation of Hippo components would be a potential therapy for preventing the progression of congenital valve d
Since the initial description of the genomic patterns expected under models of positive selection acting on standing genetic variation and on multiple beneficial mutations—so-called soft selective sweeps—researchers have sought to identify these patterns in natural population data . Indeed , over the past two years , large-scale data analyses have argued that soft sweeps are pervasive across organisms of very different effective population size and mutation rate—humans , Drosophila , and HIV . Yet , others have evaluated the relevance of these models to natural populations , as well as the identifiability of the models relative to other known population-level processes , arguing that soft sweeps are likely to be rare . Here , we look to reconcile these opposing results by carefully evaluating three recent studies and their underlying methodologies . Using population genetic theory , as well as extensive simulation , we find that all three examples are prone to extremely high false-posi
Female Aedes aegypti mosquitoes are the principal vector for dengue fever , causing 50–100 million infections per year , transmitted between human and mosquito by blood feeding . Ae . aegypti host-seeking behavior is known to be inhibited for three days following a blood meal by a hemolymph-borne humoral factor . Head Peptide-I is a candidate peptide mediating this suppression , but the mechanism by which this peptide alters mosquito behavior and the receptor through which it signals are unknown . Head Peptide-I shows sequence similarity to short Neuropeptide-F peptides ( sNPFs ) that have been implicated in feeding behaviors and are known to signal through Neuropeptide Y ( NPY ) -Like Receptors ( NPYLRs ) . We identified eight NPYLRs in the Ae . aegypti genome and screened each in a cell-based calcium imaging assay for sensitivity against a panel of peptides . Four of the Ae . aegypti NPYLRs responded to one or more peptide ligands , but only NYPLR1 responded to Head Peptide-I as well
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease and its distribution , in space and time , can be influenced by environmental factors such as rivers , elevation , slope , land surface temperature , land use/cover and rainfall . The aim of this study is to identify the areas with suitable conditions for schistosomiasis transmission on the basis of physical and environmental factors derived from satellite imagery and spatial analysis for Akure North Local Government Area ( LGA ) of Ondo State . Nigeria . This was done through methodology multicriteria evaluation ( MCE ) using Saaty’s analytical hierarchy process ( AHP ) . AHP is a multi-criteria decision method that uses hierarchical structures to represent a problem and makes decisions based on priority scales . In this research AHP was used to obtain the mapping weight or importance of each individual schistosomiasis risk factor . For the purpose of identifying areas of schistosomiasis risk , this study focused on temperature , drainage , eleva
Streptococcus pneumoniae ( pneumococcal ) meningitis is a common bacterial infection of the brain . The cholesterol-dependent cytolysin pneumolysin represents a key factor , determining the neuropathogenic potential of the pneumococci . Here , we demonstrate selective synaptic loss within the superficial layers of the frontal neocortex of post-mortem brain samples from individuals with pneumococcal meningitis . A similar effect was observed in mice with pneumococcal meningitis only when the bacteria expressed the pore-forming cholesterol-dependent cytolysin pneumolysin . Exposure of acute mouse brain slices to only pore-competent pneumolysin at disease-relevant , non-lytic concentrations caused permanent dendritic swelling , dendritic spine elimination and synaptic loss . The NMDA glutamate receptor antagonists MK801 and D-AP5 reduced this pathology . Pneumolysin increased glutamate levels within the mouse brain slices . In mouse astrocytes , pneumolysin initiated the release of glutam
Human papillomaviruses ( HPVs ) are DNA viruses associated with major human cancers . As such there is a strong interest in developing new means , such as vaccines and microbicides , to prevent HPV infections . Developing the latter requires a better understanding of the infectious life cycle of HPVs . The HPV infectious life cycle is closely linked to the differentiation state of the stratified epithelium it infects , with progeny virus only made in the terminally differentiating suprabasal compartment . It has long been recognized that HPV must first establish its infection within the basal layer of stratified epithelium , but why this is the case has not been understood . In part this restriction might reflect specificity of expression of entry receptors . However , this hypothesis could not fully explain the differentiation restriction of HPV infection , since many cell types can be infected with HPVs in monolayer cell culture . Here , we used chemical biology approaches to reveal 
Penicillium marneffei is the most important thermal dimorphic fungus causing systemic mycosis in China and Southeast Asia . While miRNAs are increasingly recognized for their roles in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression in animals and plants , miRNAs in fungi were less well studied and their potential roles in fungal dimorphism were largely unknown . Based on P . marneffei genome sequence , we hypothesize that miRNA-like RNAs ( milRNAs ) may be expressed in the dimorphic fungus . We attempted to identify milRNAs in P . marneffei in both mycelial and yeast phase using high-throughput sequencing technology . Small RNAs were more abundantly expressed in mycelial than yeast phase . Sequence analysis revealed 24 potential milRNA candidates , including 17 candidates in mycelial and seven in yeast phase . Two genes , dcl-1 and dcl-2 , encoding putative Dicer-like proteins and the gene , qde-2 , encoding Argonaute-like protein , were identified in P . marneffei . Phylogenetic an
In 2013 , Zika virus ( ZIKV ) emerged in French Polynesia and spread through the Pacific region between 2013 and 2017 . Several potential Aedes mosquitoes may have contributed to the ZIKV transmission including Aedes aegypti , the main arbovirus vector in the region , and Aedes polynesiensis , vector of lymphatic filariasis and secondary vector of dengue virus . The aim of this study was to analyze the ability of these two Pacific vectors to transmit ZIKV at a regional scale , through the evaluation and comparison of the vector competence of wild Ae . aegypti and Ae . polynesiensis populations from different Pacific islands for a ZIKV strain which circulated in this region during the 2013–2017 outbreak . Field Ae . aegypti ( three populations ) and Ae . polynesiensis ( two populations ) from the Pacific region were collected for this study . Female mosquitoes were orally exposed to ZIKV ( 107 TCID50/mL ) isolated in the region in 2014 . At 6 , 9 , 14 and 21 days post-infection , mosqui
The long non-coding RNA ( lncRNA ) Xist is a master regulator of X-chromosome inactivation in mammalian cells . Models for how Xist and other lncRNAs function depend on thermodynamically stable secondary and higher-order structures that RNAs can form in the context of a cell . Probing accessible RNA bases can provide data to build models of RNA conformation that provide insight into RNA function , molecular evolution , and modularity . To study the structure of Xist in cells , we built upon recent advances in RNA secondary structure mapping and modeling to develop Targeted Structure-Seq , which combines chemical probing of RNA structure in cells with target-specific massively parallel sequencing . By enriching for signals from the RNA of interest , Targeted Structure-Seq achieves high coverage of the target RNA with relatively few sequencing reads , thus providing a targeted and scalable approach to analyze RNA conformation in cells . We use this approach to probe the full-length Xist 
An increasing number of genetic variants have been identified for many complex diseases . However , it is controversial whether risk prediction based on genomic profiles will be useful clinically . Appropriate statistical measures to evaluate the performance of genetic risk prediction models are required . Previous studies have mainly focused on the use of the area under the receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve , or AUC , to judge the predictive value of genetic tests . However , AUC has its limitations and should be complemented by other measures . In this study , we develop a novel unifying statistical framework that connects a large variety of predictive indices together . We showed that , given the overall disease probability and the level of variance in total liability ( or heritability ) explained by the genetic variants , we can estimate analytically a large variety of prediction metrics , for example the AUC , the mean risk difference between cases and non-cases , th
Diagnosis and treatment are central elements of strategies to control Trypanosoma brucei gambiense human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) . Serological screening is a key entry point in diagnostic algorithms . The Card Agglutination Test for Trypanosomiasis ( CATT ) has been the most widely used screening test for decades , despite a number of practical limitations that were partially addressed by the introduction of rapid diagnostic tests ( RDTs ) . However , current RDTs are manufactured using native antigens , which are challenging to produce . The objective of this study was to evaluate the accuracy of a new RDT developed using recombinant antigens ( SD BIOLINE HAT 2 . 0 ) , in comparison with an RDT produced using native antigens ( SD BIOLINE HAT ) and CATT . A total of 57 , 632 individuals were screened in the Democratic Republic of the Congo , either passively at 10 health centres , or actively by 5 mobile teams , and 260 HAT cases were confirmed by parasitology . The highest sen
Chagas disease , a neglected tropical disease that affects millions of Latin Americans , has been effectively controlled in Guatemala after multiple rounds of indoor residual insecticide spraying ( IRS ) . However , a few foci remain with persistent Triatoma dimidiata infestation . One such area is the municipality of Comapa , Department of Jutiapa , in the southeastern region of Guatemala , where control interventions appear less effective . We carried out three cross sectional entomological and serological surveys in Comapa to evaluate a decade of vector control activities . Baseline serological ( 1999 ) and entomological ( 2001–2 ) surveys were followed by three rounds of insecticide applications ( 2003–2005 ) and intermittent focal spraying of infested houses , until approximately 2012 . Household inspections to determine entomological indices and construction materials were conducted in 2001 , 2007 and 2011 . Seroprevalence surveys were conducted in school-age children in 1999 , 2
Citrobacter rodentium is a natural mouse pathogen that causes attaching and effacing ( A/E ) lesions . It shares a common virulence strategy with the clinically significant human A/E pathogens enteropathogenic E . coli ( EPEC ) and enterohaemorrhagic E . coli ( EHEC ) and is widely used to model this route of pathogenesis . We previously reported the complete genome sequence of C . rodentium ICC168 , where we found that the genome displayed many characteristics of a newly evolved pathogen . In this study , through PFGE , sequencing of isolates showing variation , whole genome transcriptome analysis and examination of the mobile genetic elements , we found that , consistent with our previous hypothesis , the genome of C . rodentium is unstable as a result of repeat-mediated , large-scale genome recombination and because of active transposition of mobile genetic elements such as the prophages . We sequenced an additional C . rodentium strain , EX-33 , to reveal that the reference strain 
Stochastic fluctuations in gene expression give rise to distributions of protein levels across cell populations . Despite a mounting number of theoretical models explaining stochasticity in protein expression , we lack a robust , efficient , assumption-free approach for inferring the molecular mechanisms that underlie the shape of protein distributions . Here we propose a method for inferring sets of biochemical rate constants that govern chromatin modification , transcription , translation , and RNA and protein degradation from stochasticity in protein expression . We asked whether the rates of these underlying processes can be estimated accurately from protein expression distributions , in the absence of any limiting assumptions . To do this , we ( 1 ) derived analytical solutions for the first four moments of the protein distribution , ( 2 ) found that these four moments completely capture the shape of protein distributions , and ( 3 ) developed an efficient algorithm for inferring 
Monkeypox virus ( MPXV ) is the etiological agent of human ( MPX ) . It is an emerging orthopoxvirus zoonosis in the tropical rain forest of Africa and is endemic in the Congo-basin and sporadic in West Africa; it remains a tropical neglected disease of persons in impoverished rural areas . Interaction of the human population with wildlife increases human infection with MPX virus ( MPXV ) , and infection from human to human is possible . Smallpox vaccination provides good cross-protection against MPX; however , the vaccination campaign ended in Africa in 1980 , meaning that a large proportion of the population is currently unprotected against MPXV infection . Disease control hinges on deterring zoonotic exposure to the virus and , barring that , interrupting person-to-person spread . However , there are no FDA-approved therapies against MPX , and current vaccines are limited due to safety concerns . For this reason , new studies on pathogenesis , prophylaxis and therapeutics are still 
5’-3’ decay is the major mRNA decay pathway in many eukaryotes , including trypanosomes . After deadenylation , mRNAs are decapped by the nudix hydrolase DCP2 of the decapping complex and finally degraded by the 5’-3’ exoribonuclease . Uniquely , trypanosomes lack homologues to all subunits of the decapping complex , while deadenylation and 5’-3’ degradation are conserved . Here , I show that the parasites use an ApaH-like phosphatase ( ALPH1 ) as their major mRNA decapping enzyme . The protein was recently identified as a novel trypanosome stress granule protein and as involved in mRNA binding . A fraction of ALPH1 co-localises exclusively with the trypanosome 5’-3’ exoribonuclease XRNA to a special granule at the posterior pole of the cell , indicating a connection between the two enzymes . RNAi depletion of ALPH1 is lethal and causes a massive increase in total mRNAs that are deadenylated , but have not yet started 5’-3’ decay . These data suggest that ALPH1 acts downstream of deade
Recently , it was demonstrated that pancreatic new-born glucagon-producing cells can regenerate and convert into insulin-producing β-like cells through the ectopic expression of a single gene , Pax4 . Here , combining conditional loss-of-function and lineage tracing approaches , we show that the selective inhibition of the Arx gene in α-cells is sufficient to promote the conversion of adult α-cells into β-like cells at any age . Interestingly , this conversion induces the continuous mobilization of duct-lining precursor cells to adopt an endocrine cell fate , the glucagon+ cells thereby generated being subsequently converted into β-like cells upon Arx inhibition . Of interest , through the generation and analysis of Arx and Pax4 conditional double-mutants , we provide evidence that Pax4 is dispensable for these regeneration processes , indicating that Arx represents the main trigger of α-cell-mediated β-like cell neogenesis . Importantly , the loss of Arx in α-cells is sufficient to re
Eukaryotic cells must inhibit re-initiation of DNA replication at each of the thousands of origins in their genome because re-initiation can generate genomic alterations with extraordinary frequency . To minimize the probability of re-initiation from so many origins , cells use a battery of regulatory mechanisms that reduce the activity of replication initiation proteins . Given the global nature of these mechanisms , it has been presumed that all origins are inhibited identically . However , origins re-initiate with diverse efficiencies when these mechanisms are disabled , and this diversity cannot be explained by differences in the efficiency or timing of origin initiation during normal S phase replication . This observation raises the possibility of an additional layer of replication control that can differentially regulate re-initiation at distinct origins . We have identified novel genetic elements that are necessary for preferential re-initiation of two origins and sufficient to 
Invasive amebic diseases caused by Entamoeba histolytica are increasing among men who have sex with men and co-infection of ameba and HIV-1 is an emerging problem in developed East Asian countries . To characterize the clinical and epidemiological features of invasive amebiasis in HIV-1 patients , the medical records of 170 co-infected cases were analyzed retrospectively , and E . histolytica genotype was assayed in 14 cases . In this series of HIV-1-infected patients , clinical presentation of invasive amebiasis was similar to that described in the normal host . High fever , leukocytosis and high CRP were associated with extraluminal amebic diseases . Two cases died from amebic colitis ( resulting in intestinal perforation in one and gastrointestinal bleeding in one ) , and three cases died from causes unrelated to amebiasis . Treatment with metronidazole or tinidazole was successful in the other 165 cases . Luminal treatment was provided to 83 patients following metronidazole or tini
Gambian sleeping sickness or HAT ( human African trypanosomiasis ) is a neglected tropical disease caused by Trypanosoma brucei gambiense transmitted by riverine species of tsetse . A global programme aims to eliminate the disease as a public health problem by 2020 and stop transmission by 2030 . In the South of Chad , the Mandoul area is a persistent focus of Gambian sleeping sickness where around 100 HAT cases were still diagnosed and treated annually until 2013 . Pre-2014 , control of HAT relied solely on case detection and treatment , which lead to a gradual decrease in the number of cases of HAT due to annual screening of the population . Because of the persistence of transmission and detection of new cases , we assessed whether the addition of vector control to case detection and treatment could further reduce transmission and consequently , reduce annual incidence of HAT in Mandoul . In particular , we investigated the impact of deploying ‘tiny targets’ which attract and kill ts
Imported strongyloidiasis is increasingly being diagnosed in non-endemic areas . The aim of this study was to describe the epidemiological , clinical and microbiological characteristics of patients with imported strongyloidiasis in Spain . This is an observational retrospective study that included all patients diagnosed of strongyloidiasis registered in the +REDIVI Collaborative Network from 2009 to 2017 . Demographic , epidemiological and clinical information was collected from the +REDIVI database , and extra information regarding microbiological techniques , treatment and follow-up was requested to participant centers . Overall , 1245 cases were included . Most of them were immigrants ( 66 . 9% ) , and South America was the most frequent area of origin . Detection of larvae in stool samples was observed in 21 . 9% of the patients , and serological tests allowed making the diagnosis in the rest of the cases . Eosinophilia was present in 82 . 2% of cases . Treatment with ivermectin ( 
Vaccination is an effective method to protect against infectious diseases . An important consideration in any vaccine formulation is the inoculum dose , i . e . , amount of antigen or live attenuated pathogen that is used . Higher levels generally lead to better stimulation of the immune response but might cause more severe side effects and allow for less population coverage in the presence of vaccine shortages . Determining the optimal amount of inoculum dose is an important component of rational vaccine design . A combination of mathematical models with experimental data can help determine the impact of the inoculum dose . We illustrate the concept of using data and models to inform inoculum dose determination for vaccines , wby fitting a mathematical model to data from influenza A virus ( IAV ) infection of mice and human parainfluenza virus ( HPIV ) infection of cotton rats at different inoculum doses . We use the model to map inoculum dose to the level of immune protection and mor
Under nitrogen deprivation , filaments of the cyanobacterium Anabaena undergo a process of development , resulting in a one-dimensional pattern of nitrogen-fixing heterocysts separated by about ten photosynthetic vegetative cells . Many aspects of gene expression before nitrogen deprivation and during the developmental process remain to be elucidated . Furthermore , the coupling of gene expression fluctuations between cells along a multicellular filament is unknown . We studied the statistics of fluctuations of gene expression of HetR , a transcription factor essential for heterocyst differentiation , both under steady-state growth in nitrogen-rich conditions and at different times following nitrogen deprivation , using a chromosomally-encoded translational hetR-gfp fusion . Statistical analysis of fluorescence at the individual cell level in wild-type and mutant filaments demonstrates that expression fluctuations of hetR in nearby cells are coupled , with a characteristic spatial rang
Japanese encephalitis virus ( JEV ) genotype dominance has shifted to genotype I ( GI ) from genotype III ( GIII ) in China as demonstrated by molecular epidemiological surveillance . In this study , we performed a serological survey in JEV-non-vaccinated pigs to confirm JEV genotype shift at the sero-epidemiological level . The average ratio of GI/GIII infection was 1 . 87 , suggesting co-circulation of GI and GIII infections with GI infection being more prevalent in pigs in China . To gain an insight into the reasons for this JEV genotype shift , the replication kinetics of seven recently-isolated JEV isolates including three GI strains and four GIII strains were compared in mosquito C6/36 cells , chicken fibroblast cells ( DF-1 ) and porcine iliac artery endothelial cells ( PIEC ) . We observed that GI strains replicated more efficiently than GIII strains in DF-1 and PIEC cells , particularly in DF-1 cells with titers reaching 22 . 9–225 . 3 fold higher than GIII strains . This show
Biofilm formation by Candida albicans is a key aspect of its pathobiology and is regulated by an integrated network of transcription factors ( Bcr1 , Brg1 , Efg1 , Ndt80 , Rob1 , and Tec1 ) . To understand the details of how the transcription factors function together to regulate biofilm formation , we used a systematic genetic interaction approach based on generating all possible double heterozygous mutants of the network genes and quantitatively analyzing the genetic interactions between them . Overall , the network is highly susceptible to genetic perturbation with the six network heterozygous mutants all showing alterations in biofilm formation ( haploinsufficiency ) . In addition , many double heterozygous mutants are as severely affected as homozygous deletions . As a result , the network shows properties of a highly interdependent ‘small-world’ network that is highly efficient but not robust . In addition , these genetic interaction data indicate that TEC1 represents a network c
A growing interest in asparagine ( Asn ) metabolism has currently been observed in cancer and infection fields . Asparagine synthetase ( AS ) is responsible for the conversion of aspartate into Asn in an ATP-dependent manner , using ammonia or glutamine as a nitrogen source . There are two structurally distinct AS: the strictly ammonia dependent , type A , and the type B , which preferably uses glutamine . Absent in humans and present in trypanosomatids , AS-A was worthy of exploring as a potential drug target candidate . Appealingly , it was reported that AS-A was essential in Leishmania donovani , making it a promising drug target . In the work herein we demonstrate that Leishmania infantum AS-A , similarly to Trypanosoma spp . and L . donovani , is able to use both ammonia and glutamine as nitrogen donors . Moreover , we have successfully generated LiASA null mutants by targeted gene replacement in L . infantum , and these parasites do not display any significant growth or infectivi
To gain further insight on the association between human toxocariasis and epilepsy in light of the new evidence in the last years . A systematic review was conducted without date and language restriction in the following electronic databases: MEDLINE ( PubMed ) , Ingenta Connect , Science Direct ( Elsevier ) , RefDoc , Scopus , HighWire , Scielo and the database of the Institute of Neuroepidemiology and Tropical Neurology of the Limoges University ( IENT ) . Two investigators independently conducted the search up to November 2017 . A pooled odds ratio ( OR ) was estimated using a random effects model . Meta-regression was conducted to investigate potential sources of heterogeneity . Database search produced 204 publications . Eleven case-control studies were included that were carried out in 13 countries worldwide . A total number of 4740 subjects were considered ( 2159 people with epilepsy and 2581 people without epilepsy ) . The overall pooled OR was 1 . 69 ( 95% CI 1 . 42–2 . 01 ) f
ATM plays a critical role in cellular responses to DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) . We describe a new ATM–mediated DSB–induced DNA damage response pathway involving microRNA ( miRNA ) : irradiation ( IR ) -induced DSBs activate ATM , which leads to the downregulation of miR-335 , a miRNA that targets CtIP , which is an important trigger of DNA end resection in homologous recombination repair ( HRR ) . We demonstrate that CREB is responsible for a large portion of miR-335 expression by binding to the promoter region of miR-335 . CREB binding is greatly reduced after IR , corroborating with previous studies that IR-activated ATM phosphorylates CREB to reduce its transcription activity . Overexpression of miR-335 in HeLa cells resulted in reduced CtIP levels and post-IR colony survival and BRCA1 foci formation . Further , in two patient-derived lymphoblastoid cell lines with decreased post-IR colony survival , a “radiosensitive” phenotype , we demonstrated elevated miR-335 expression ,
"When it comes to interpreting others' behaviour , we almost irrepressibly engage in the attribution of mental states ( beliefs , emotions… ) . Such ""mentalizing"" can become very sophisticated , eventually endowing us with highly adaptive skills such as convincing , teaching or deceiving . Here , sophistication can be captured in terms of the depth of our recursive beliefs , as in ""I think that you think that I think…"" In this work , we test whether such sophisticated recursive beliefs subtend learning in the context of social interaction . We asked participants to play repeated games against artificial ( Bayesian ) mentalizing agents , which differ in their sophistication . Critically , we made people believe either that they were playing against each other , or that they were gambling like in a casino . Although both framings are similarly deceiving , participants win against the artificial ( sophisticated ) mentalizing agents in the social framing of the task , and lose in the non-so"
Biological networks provide additional information for the analysis of human diseases , beyond the traditional analysis that focuses on single variables . Gaussian graphical model ( GGM ) , a probability model that characterizes the conditional dependence structure of a set of random variables by a graph , has wide applications in the analysis of biological networks , such as inferring interaction or comparing differential networks . However , existing approaches are either not statistically rigorous or are inefficient for high-dimensional data that include tens of thousands of variables for making inference . In this study , we propose an efficient algorithm to implement the estimation of GGM and obtain p-value and confidence interval for each edge in the graph , based on a recent proposal by Ren et al . , 2015 . Through simulation studies , we demonstrate that the algorithm is faster by several orders of magnitude than the current implemented algorithm for Ren et al . without losing 
Slowly varying activity in the striatum , the main Basal Ganglia input structure , is important for the learning and execution of movement sequences . Striatal medium spiny neurons ( MSNs ) form cell assemblies whose population firing rates vary coherently on slow behaviourally relevant timescales . It has been shown that such activity emerges in a model of a local MSN network but only at realistic connectivities of and only when MSN generated inhibitory post-synaptic potentials ( IPSPs ) are realistically sized . Here we suggest a reason for this . We investigate how MSN network generated population activity interacts with temporally varying cortical driving activity , as would occur in a behavioural task . We find that at unrealistically high connectivity a stable winners-take-all type regime is found where network activity separates into fixed stimulus dependent regularly firing and quiescent components . In this regime only a small number of population firing rate components intera
Polarized growth is maintained by both polarized exocytosis , which transports membrane components to specific locations on the cell cortex , and endocytosis , which retrieves these components before they can diffuse away . Despite functional links between these two transport pathways , they are generally considered to be separate events . Using live cell imaging , in vivo and in vitro protein binding assays , and in vitro pyrene-actin polymerization assays , we show that the yeast Rab GTPase Sec4p couples polarized exocytosis with cortical actin polymerization , which induces endocytosis . After polarized exocytosis to the plasma membrane , Sec4p binds Las17/Bee1p ( yeast Wiskott—Aldrich Syndrome protein [WASp] ) in a complex with Sla1p and Sla2p during actin patch assembly . Mutations that inactivate Sec4p , or its guanine nucleotide exchange factor ( GEF ) Sec2p , inhibit actin patch formation , whereas the activating sec4-Q79L mutation accelerates patch assembly . In vitro assays o
Acetaminophen-induced liver injury in mice is a model for drug-induced liver injury in humans . A precondition for improved strategies to disrupt and/or reverse the damage is a credible explanatory mechanism for how toxicity phenomena emerge and converge to cause hepatic necrosis . The Target Phenomenon in mice is that necrosis begins adjacent to the lobule’s central vein ( CV ) and progresses outward . An explanatory mechanism remains elusive . Evidence supports that location dependent differences in NAPQI ( the reactive metabolite ) formation within hepatic lobules ( NAPQI zonation ) are necessary and sufficient prerequisites to account for that phenomenon . We call that the NZ-mechanism hypothesis . Challenging that hypothesis in mice is infeasible because 1 ) influential variables cannot be controlled , and 2 ) it would require sequential intracellular measurements at different lobular locations within the same mouse . Virtual hepatocytes use independently configured periportal-to-
According to the Chagas congenital transmission guides , the diagnosis of infants , born to Trypanosoma cruzi infected mothers , relies on the detection of parasites by INP micromethod , and/or the persistence of T . cruzi specific antibody titers at 10–12 months of age . Parasitemia levels were quantified by PCR in T . cruzi-infected children , grouped according to the results of one-year follow-up diagnosis: A ) Neonates that were diagnosed in the first month after delivery by microscopic blood examination ( INP micromethod ) ( n = 19 ) had a median parasitemia of 1 , 700 Pe/mL ( equivalent amounts of parasite DNA per mL ) ; B ) Infants that required a second parasitological diagnosis at six months of age ( n = 10 ) showed a median parasitemia of around 20 Pe/mL and 500 Pe/mL at 1 and 6 months old , respectively , and C ) babies with undetectable parasitemia by three blood microscopic observations but diagnosed by specific anti - T . cruzi serology at around 1 year old , ( n = 22 ) ,
We propose a biophysical model of Escherichia coli that predicts growth rate and an effective cellular composition from an effective , coarse-grained representation of its genome . We assume that E . coli is in a state of balanced exponential steady-state growth , growing in a temporally and spatially constant environment , rich in resources . We apply this model to a series of past measurements , where the growth rate and rRNA-to-protein ratio have been measured for seven E . coli strains with an rRNA operon copy number ranging from one to seven ( the wild-type copy number ) . These experiments show that growth rate markedly decreases for strains with fewer than six copies . Using the model , we were able to reproduce these measurements . We show that the model that best fits these data suggests that the volume fraction of macromolecules inside E . coli is not fixed when the rRNA operon copy number is varied . Moreover , the model predicts that increasing the copy number beyond seven 
MYB transcription factors are involved in many biological processes , including metabolism , development and responses to biotic and abiotic stresses . RADIALIS-LIKE SANT/MYB 1 ( RSM1 ) belongs to a MYB-related subfamily , and previous transcriptome analysis suggests that RSM1 may play roles in plant development , stress responses and plant hormone signaling . However , the molecular mechanisms of RSM1 action in response to abiotic stresses remain obscure . We show that down-regulation or up-regulation of RSM1 expression alters the sensitivity of seed germination and cotyledon greening to abscisic acid ( ABA ) , NaCl and mannitol in Arabidopsis . The expression of RSM1 is dynamically regulated by ABA and NaCl . Transcription factors ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL 5 ( HY5 ) and HY5 HOMOLOG ( HYH ) regulate RSM1 expression via binding to the RSM1 promoter . Genetic analyses reveal that RSM1 mediates multiple functions of HY5 in responses of seed germination , post-germination development to ABA and
Mitochondrial complex I , the largest and most complicated proton pump of the respiratory chain , links the electron transfer from NADH to ubiquinone to the pumping of four protons from the matrix into the intermembrane space . In humans , defects in complex I are involved in a wide range of degenerative disorders . Recent progress in the X-ray structural analysis of prokaryotic and eukaryotic complex I confirmed that the redox reactions are confined entirely to the hydrophilic peripheral arm of the L-shaped molecule and take place at a remarkable distance from the membrane domain . While this clearly implies that the proton pumping within the membrane arm of complex I is driven indirectly via long-range conformational coupling , the molecular mechanism and the number , identity , and localization of the pump-sites remains unclear . Here , we report that upon deletion of the gene for a small accessory subunit of the Yarrowia complex I , a stable subcomplex ( nb8mΔ ) is formed that lack
Fever is a regulated increase of the body temperature resulting from both infectious and non-infectious causes . Fever is known to play a role in modulating immune responses to infection , but the potential of febrile temperatures in regulating antigen binding affinity to antibodies has not been explored . Here we investigated this process under in vitro conditions using Isothermal titration calorimetry and ELISA . We used selected malarial and dengue antigens against specific monoclonal antibodies , and observed a marked increase in the affinity of these antibody-antigen complexes at 40°C , compared to physiological ( 37°C ) or pathophysiological temperatures ( 42°C ) . Induced thermal equilibration of the protein partners at these temperatures in vitro , prior to measurements , further increased their binding affinity . These results suggest another positive and adaptive role for fever in vivo , and highlight the favourable role of thermal priming in enhancing protein-protein affinit
Actomyosin-based cortical flow is a fundamental engine for cellular morphogenesis . Cortical flows are generated by cross-linked networks of actin filaments and myosin motors , in which active stress produced by motor activity is opposed by passive resistance to network deformation . Continuous flow requires local remodeling through crosslink unbinding and and/or filament disassembly . But how local remodeling tunes stress production and dissipation , and how this in turn shapes long range flow , remains poorly understood . Here , we study a computational model for a cross-linked network with active motors based on minimal requirements for production and dissipation of contractile stress: Asymmetric filament compliance , spatial heterogeneity of motor activity , reversible cross-links and filament turnover . We characterize how the production and dissipation of network stress depend , individually , on cross-link dynamics and filament turnover , and how these dependencies combine to de
Seedling establishment is inhibited on media containing high levels ( ∼6% ) of glucose or fructose . Genetic loci that overcome the inhibition of seedling growth on high sugar have been identified using natural variation analysis and mutant selection , providing insight into sugar signaling pathways . In this study , a quantitative trait locus ( QTL ) analysis was performed for seedling sensitivity to high sugar in a Col/C24 F2 population of Arabidopsis thaliana . A glucose and fructose-sensing QTL , GSQ11 , was mapped through selective genotyping and confirmed in near-isogenic lines in both Col and C24 backgrounds . Allelism tests and transgenic complementation showed that GSQ11 lies within the ANAC060 gene . The Col ANAC060 allele confers sugar insensitivity and was dominant over the sugar-sensitive C24 allele . Genomic and mRNA analyses showed that a single-nucleotide polymorphism ( SNP ) in Col ANAC060 affects the splicing patterns of ANAC060 such that 20 additional nucleotides are
The molecular basis of second messenger signaling relies on an array of proteins that synthesize , degrade or bind the molecule to produce coherent functional outputs . Cyclic di-GMP ( c-di-GMP ) has emerged as a eubacterial nucleotide second messenger regulating a plethora of key behaviors , like the transition from planktonic cells to biofilm communities . The striking multiplicity of c-di-GMP control modules and regulated cellular functions raised the question of signaling specificity . Are c-di-GMP signaling routes exclusively dependent on a central hub or can they be locally administrated ? In this study , we show an example of how c-di-GMP signaling gains output specificity in Pseudomonas aeruginosa . We observed the occurrence in P . aeruginosa of a c-di-GMP synthase gene , hsbD , in the proximity of the hptB and flagellar genes cluster . We show that the HptB pathway controls biofilm formation and motility by involving both HsbD and the anti-anti-sigma factor HsbA . The rewirin
Humans can learn and store multiple visuomotor mappings ( dual-adaptation ) when feedback for each is provided alternately . Moreover , learned context cues associated with each mapping can be used to switch between the stored mappings . However , little is known about the associative learning between cue and required visuomotor mapping , and how learning generalises to novel but similar conditions . To investigate these questions , participants performed a rapid target-pointing task while we manipulated the offset between visual feedback and movement end-points . The visual feedback was presented with horizontal offsets of different amounts , dependent on the targets shape . Participants thus needed to use different visuomotor mappings between target location and required motor response depending on the target shape in order to “hit” it . The target shapes were taken from a continuous set of shapes , morphed between spiky and circular shapes . After training we tested participants per
The inferior olivary nucleus provides one of the two main inputs to the cerebellum: the so-called climbing fibers . Activation of climbing fibers is generally believed to be related to timing of motor commands and/or motor learning . Climbing fiber spikes lead to large all-or-none action potentials in cerebellar Purkinje cells , overriding any other ongoing activity and silencing these cells for a brief period of time afterwards . Empirical evidence shows that the climbing fiber can transmit a short burst of spikes as a result of an olivary cell somatic spike , potentially increasing the information being transferred to the cerebellum per climbing fiber activation . Previously reported results from in vitro studies suggested that the information encoded in the climbing fiber burst is related to the occurrence of the spike relative to the ongoing sub-threshold membrane potential oscillation of the olivary cell , i . e . that the phase of the oscillation is reflected in the size of the c
Iron is essential for all known life due to its redox properties; however , these same properties can also lead to its toxicity in overload through the production of reactive oxygen species . Robust systemic and cellular control are required to maintain safe levels of iron , and the liver seems to be where this regulation is mainly located . Iron misregulation is implicated in many diseases , and as our understanding of iron metabolism improves , the list of iron-related disorders grows . Recent developments have resulted in greater knowledge of the fate of iron in the body and have led to a detailed map of its metabolism; however , a quantitative understanding at the systems level of how its components interact to produce tight regulation remains elusive . A mechanistic computational model of human liver iron metabolism , which includes the core regulatory components , is presented here . It was constructed based on known mechanisms of regulation and on their kinetic properties , obta
The nuclear pore complex ( NPC ) regulates molecular traffic across the nuclear envelope ( NE ) . Selective transport happens on the order of milliseconds and the length scale of tens of nanometers; however , the transport mechanism remains elusive . Central to the transport process is the hydrophobic interactions between karyopherins ( kaps ) and Phe-Gly ( FG ) repeat domains . Taking into account the polymeric nature of FG-repeats grafted on the elastic structure of the NPC , and the kap-FG hydrophobic affinity , we have established a coarse-grained model of the NPC structure that mimics nucleocytoplasmic transport . To establish a foundation for future works , the methodology and biophysical rationale behind the model is explained in details . The model predicts that the first-passage time of a 15 nm cargo-complex is about 2 . 6±0 . 13 ms with an inverse Gaussian distribution for statistically adequate number of independent Brownian dynamics simulations . Moreover , the cargo-comple
The nonhuman primate ( NHP ) model is often the best experimental model for testing interventions designed to block infection by human pathogens , such as HIV , tuberculosis , and malaria . A physiological model may require the use of a limiting dose of the infectious agent , where only a fraction of animals become infected upon any given challenge . Determining the challenge dose of the pathogen in such experiments is critical to the success of the experiment: using too-high or too-low a challenge dose may lead to false negative results and an excessive use of animals . Here I define an optimized protocol for defining the dose of pathogen that infects 50% of the time ( AID50 ) ; other challenge doses , e . g . AID80 , can be easily calculated from the same data . This protocol minimizes the number of animals , as well as resources and procedures , while providing an estimate of the AID50 within 1 . 5-fold of the true value . 
Sensory systems adapt their neural code to changes in the sensory environment , often on multiple time scales . Here , we report a new form of adaptation in a first-order auditory interneuron ( AN2 ) of crickets . We characterize the response of the AN2 neuron to amplitude-modulated sound stimuli and find that adaptation shifts the stimulus–response curves toward higher stimulus intensities , with a time constant of 1 . 5 s for adaptation and recovery . The spike responses were thus reduced for low-intensity sounds . We then address the question whether adaptation leads to an improvement of the signal's representation and compare the experimental results with the predictions of two competing hypotheses: infomax , which predicts that information conveyed about the entire signal range should be maximized , and selective coding , which predicts that “foreground” signals should be enhanced while “background” signals should be selectively suppressed . We test how adaptation changes the inpu
Previous studies identified two mammalian prion protein ( PrP ) polybasic domains that bind the disease-associated conformer PrPSc , suggesting that these domains of cellular prion protein ( PrPC ) serve as docking sites for PrPSc during prion propagation . To examine the role of polybasic domains in the context of full-length PrPC , we used prion proteins lacking one or both polybasic domains expressed from Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cells as substrates in serial protein misfolding cyclic amplification ( sPMCA ) reactions . After ∼5 rounds of sPMCA , PrPSc molecules lacking the central polybasic domain ( ΔC ) were formed . Surprisingly , in contrast to wild-type prions , ΔC-PrPSc prions could bind to and induce quantitative conversion of all the polybasic domain mutant substrates into PrPSc molecules . Remarkably , ΔC-PrPSc and other polybasic domain PrPSc molecules displayed diminished or absent biological infectivity relative to wild-type PrPSc , despite their ability to seed sPM
Animals are able to reach a desired state in an environment by controlling various behavioral patterns . Identification of the behavioral strategy used for this control is important for understanding animals’ decision-making and is fundamental to dissect information processing done by the nervous system . However , methods for quantifying such behavioral strategies have not been fully established . In this study , we developed an inverse reinforcement-learning ( IRL ) framework to identify an animal’s behavioral strategy from behavioral time-series data . We applied this framework to C . elegans thermotactic behavior; after cultivation at a constant temperature with or without food , fed worms prefer , while starved worms avoid the cultivation temperature on a thermal gradient . Our IRL approach revealed that the fed worms used both the absolute temperature and its temporal derivative and that their behavior involved two strategies: directed migration ( DM ) and isothermal migration ( 
Haptophytes are recognized as seminal players in aquatic ecosystem function . These algae are important in global carbon sequestration , form destructive harmful blooms , and given their rich fatty acid content , serve as a highly nutritive food source to a broad range of eco-cohorts . Haptophyte dominance in both fresh and marine waters is supported by the mixotrophic nature of many taxa . Despite their importance the nuclear genome sequence of only one haptophyte , Emiliania huxleyi ( Isochrysidales ) , is available . Here we report the draft genome sequence of Chrysochromulina tobin ( Prymnesiales ) , and transcriptome data collected at seven time points over a 24-hour light/dark cycle . The nuclear genome of C . tobin is small ( 59 Mb ) , compact ( ∼40% of the genome is protein coding ) and encodes approximately 16 , 777 genes . Genes important to fatty acid synthesis , modification , and catabolism show distinct patterns of expression when monitored over the circadian photoperiod 
Breast cancers that are “triple-negative” for the clinical markers ESR1 , PGR , and HER2 typically belong to the Basal-like molecular subtype . Defective Rb , p53 , and Brca1 pathways are each associated with triple-negative and Basal-like subtypes . Our mouse genetic studies demonstrate that the combined inactivation of Rb and p53 pathways is sufficient to suppress the physiological cell death of mammary involution . Furthermore , concomitant inactivation of all three pathways in mammary epithelium has an additive effect on tumor latency and predisposes highly penetrant , metastatic adenocarcinomas . The tumors are poorly differentiated and have histologic features that are common among human Brca1-mutated tumors , including heterogeneous morphology , metaplasia , and necrosis . Gene expression analyses demonstrate that the tumors share attributes of both Basal-like and Claudin-low signatures , two molecular subtypes encompassed by the broader , triple-negative class defined by clinic
Aedes aegypti ( L . ) is the primary vector of dengue , the most important arboviral infection globally . Until an effective vaccine is licensed and rigorously administered , Ae . aegypti control remains the principal tool in preventing and curtailing dengue transmission . Accurate predictions of vector populations are required to assess control methods and develop effective population reduction strategies . Ae . aegypti develops primarily in artificial water holding containers . Release recapture studies indicate that most adult Ae . aegypti do not disperse over long distances . We expect , therefore , that containers in an area of high development site density are more likely to be oviposition sites and to be more frequently used as oviposition sites than containers that are relatively isolated from other development sites . After accounting for individual container characteristics , containers more frequently used as oviposition sites are likely to produce adult mosquitoes consisten
Animals integrate external cues with information about internal conditions such as metabolic state to execute the appropriate behavioral and developmental decisions . Information about food quality and quantity is assessed by the intestine and transmitted to modulate neuronal functions via mechanisms that are not fully understood . The conserved Target of Rapamycin complex 2 ( TORC2 ) controls multiple processes in response to cellular stressors and growth factors . Here we show that TORC2 coordinates larval development and adult behaviors in response to environmental cues and feeding state in the bacterivorous nematode C . elegans . During development , pheromone , bacterial food , and temperature regulate expression of the daf-7 TGF-β and daf-28 insulin-like peptide in sensory neurons to promote a binary decision between reproductive growth and entry into the alternate dauer larval stage . We find that TORC2 acts in the intestine to regulate neuronal expression of both daf-7 and daf-
Understanding the transcriptional regulation of pluripotent cells is of fundamental interest and will greatly inform efforts aimed at directing differentiation of embryonic stem ( ES ) cells or reprogramming somatic cells . We first analyzed the transcriptional profiles of mouse ES cells and primordial germ cells and identified genes upregulated in pluripotent cells both in vitro and in vivo . These genes are enriched for roles in transcription , chromatin remodeling , cell cycle , and DNA repair . We developed a novel computational algorithm , CompMoby , which combines analyses of sequences both aligned and non-aligned between different genomes with a probabilistic segmentation model to systematically predict short DNA motifs that regulate gene expression . CompMoby was used to identify conserved overrepresented motifs in genes upregulated in pluripotent cells . We show that the motifs are preferentially active in undifferentiated mouse ES and embryonic germ cells in a sequence-specif
Replication of non-segmented negative-strand RNA viruses requires the continuous supply of the nucleoprotein ( N ) in the form of a complex with the phosphoprotein ( P ) . Here , we present the structural characterization of a soluble , heterodimeric complex between a variant of vesicular stomatitis virus N lacking its 21 N-terminal residues ( NΔ21 ) and a peptide of 60 amino acids ( P60 ) encompassing the molecular recognition element ( MoRE ) of P that binds RNA-free N ( N0 ) . The complex crystallized in a decameric circular form , which was solved at 3 . 0 Å resolution , reveals how the MoRE folds upon binding to N and competes with RNA binding and N polymerization . Small-angle X-ray scattering experiment and NMR spectroscopy on the soluble complex confirms the binding of the MoRE and indicates that its flanking regions remain flexible in the complex . The structure of this complex also suggests a mechanism for the initiation of viral RNA synthesis . 
Understanding the computational implications of specific synaptic connectivity patterns is a fundamental goal in neuroscience . In particular , the computational role of ubiquitous electrical synapses operating via gap junctions remains elusive . In the fly visual system , the cells in the vertical-system network , which play a key role in visual processing , primarily connect to each other via axonal gap junctions . This network therefore provides a unique opportunity to explore the functional role of gap junctions in sensory information processing . Our information theoretical analysis of a realistic VS network model shows that within 10 ms following the onset of the visual input , the presence of axonal gap junctions enables the VS system to efficiently encode the axis of rotation , θ , of the fly’s ego motion . This encoding efficiency , measured in bits , is near-optimal with respect to the physical limits of performance determined by the statistical structure of the visual input 
Enterovirus 71 ( EV71 ) is one of the major causative agents of hand , foot , and mouth disease , a common febrile disease in children; however , EV71 has been also associated with various neurological diseases including fatal cases in large EV71 outbreaks particularly in the Asia Pacific region . Recently we identified human P-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1 ( PSGL-1 ) as a cellular receptor for entry and replication of EV71 in leukocytes . PSGL-1 is a sialomucin expressed on the surface of leukocytes , serves as a high affinity counterreceptor for selectins , and mediates leukocyte rolling on the endothelium . The PSGL-1–P-selectin interaction requires sulfation of at least one of three clustered tyrosines and an adjacent O-glycan expressing sialyl Lewis x in an N-terminal region of PSGL-1 . To elucidate the molecular basis of the PSGL-1–EV71 interaction , we generated a series of PSGL-1 mutants and identified the post-translational modifications that are critical for binding of PSGL-
Leishmaniasis is a serious global health problem affecting many people worldwide . While patients with leishmaniasis can be treated with several agents , drug toxicicty and the emergence of resistant strains render available treatments ineffective in the long run . Inhibitors of the mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) have been demonstrated to exert anti-pathogen properties . In this study , we tested the therapeutic efficacy of several mTOR inhibitors in controlling infection with Leishmania major . Rapamycin , GSK-2126458 and KU-0063794 were administered to BALB/c mice , which had received an intrafootpad injection of the parasite . Footpad swelling and parasite burden were assessed , and cytokine production by mouse splenocytes and phenotypic changes in draining lymph node cells were evaluated . Treatment with a clinically relevant dose of rapamycin or with GSK-2126458 , but not with KU-0063794 , dramatically lowered both the footpad swelling and the parasite load in the draining
Natural transformation is the widespread biological process by which “competent” bacteria take up free DNA , incorporate it into their genomes , and become genetically altered or “transformed” . To curb often deleterious transformation by foreign DNA , several competent species preferentially take up their own DNA that contains specific DUS ( DNA uptake sequence ) watermarks . Our recent finding that ComP is the long sought DUS receptor in Neisseria species paves the way for the functional analysis of the DUS-ComP interdependence which is reported here . By abolishing/modulating ComP levels in Neisseria meningitidis , we show that the enhancement of transformation seen in the presence of DUS is entirely dependent on ComP , which also controls transformation in the absence of DUS . While peripheral bases in the DUS were found to be less important , inner bases are essential since single base mutations led to dramatically impaired interaction with ComP and transformation . Strikingly , n
In fungal cells cytokinesis requires coordinated closure of a contractile actomyosin ring ( CAR ) and synthesis of a special cell wall structure known as the division septum . Many CAR proteins have been identified and characterized , but how these molecules interact with the septum synthesis enzymes to form the septum remains unclear . Our genetic study using fission yeast shows that cooperation between the paxillin homolog Pxl1 , required for ring integrity , and Bgs1 , the enzyme responsible for linear β ( 1 , 3 ) glucan synthesis and primary septum formation , is required for stable anchorage of the CAR to the plasma membrane before septation onset , and for cleavage furrow formation . Thus , lack of Pxl1 in combination with Bgs1 depletion , causes failure of ring contraction and lateral cell wall overgrowth towards the cell lumen without septum formation . We also describe here that Pxl1 concentration at the CAR increases during cytokinesis and that this increase depends on the SH
Glanders , caused by the gram-negative bacterium Burkholderia mallei , is a highly infectious zoonotic disease of solipeds causing severe disease in animals and men . Although eradicated from many Western countries , it recently emerged in Asia , the Middle-East , Africa , and South America . Due to its rareness , little is known about outbreak dynamics of the disease and its epidemiology . We investigated a recent outbreak of glanders in Bahrain by applying high resolution genotyping ( multiple locus variable number of tandem repeats , MLVA ) and comparative whole genome sequencing to B . mallei isolated from infected horses and a camel . These results were compared to samples obtained from an outbreak in the United Arab Emirates in 2004 , and further placed into a broader phylogeographic context based on previously published B . mallei data . The samples from the outbreak in Bahrain separated into two distinct clusters , suggesting a complex epidemiological background and evidence fo
American cutaneous leishmaniasis ( ACL ) is a complicated disease producing about 67 . 000 new cases per year . The severity of the disease depends on the parasite species; however in the vast majority of cases species confirmation is not feasible . WHO suggestion for ACL produced by Leishmania braziliensis , as first line treatment , are pentavalent antimonial derivatives ( Glucantime or Sodium Stibogluconate ) under systemic administration . According to different authors , pentavalent antimonial derivatives as treatment for ACL show a healing rate of about 75% and reasons for treatment failure are not well known . In order to characterise the clinical and parasitological features of patients with ACL that did not respond to Glucantime , a cross-sectional observational study was carried out in a cohort of 43 patients recruited in three of the Colombian Army National reference centers for complicated ACL . Clinical and paraclinical examination , and epidemiological and geographic info
In Escherichia coli , the biosynthetic pathways of several small iron-scavenging molecules known as siderophores ( enterobactin , salmochelins and yersiniabactin ) and of a genotoxin ( colibactin ) are known to require a 4′-phosphopantetheinyl transferase ( PPTase ) . Only two PPTases have been clearly identified: EntD and ClbA . The gene coding for EntD is part of the core genome of E . coli , whereas ClbA is encoded on the pks pathogenicity island which codes for colibactin . Interestingly , the pks island is physically associated with the high pathogenicity island ( HPI ) in a subset of highly virulent E . coli strains . The HPI carries the gene cluster required for yersiniabactin synthesis except for a gene coding its cognate PPTase . Here we investigated a potential interplay between the synthesis pathways leading to the production of siderophores and colibactin , through a functional interchangeability between EntD and ClbA . We demonstrated that ClbA could contribute to sideroph
A fundamental task in sequence analysis is to calculate the probability of a multiple alignment given a phylogenetic tree relating the sequences and an evolutionary model describing how sequences change over time . However , the most widely used phylogenetic models only account for residue substitution events . We describe a probabilistic model of a multiple sequence alignment that accounts for insertion and deletion events in addition to substitutions , given a phylogenetic tree , using a rate matrix augmented by the gap character . Starting from a continuous Markov process , we construct a non-reversible generative ( birth–death ) evolutionary model for insertions and deletions . The model assumes that insertion and deletion events occur one residue at a time . We apply this model to phylogenetic tree inference by extending the program dnaml in phylip . Using standard benchmarking methods on simulated data and a new “concordance test” benchmark on real ribosomal RNA alignments , we s
The mechanism by which immunity to Herpes Simplex Virus ( HSV ) is initiated is not completely defined . HSV initially infects mucosal epidermis prior to entering nerve endings . In mice , epidermal Langerhans cells ( LCs ) are the first dendritic cells ( DCs ) to encounter HSV , but it is CD103+ dermal DCs that carry viral antigen to lymph nodes for antigen presentation , suggesting DC cross-talk in skin . In this study , we compared topically HSV-1 infected human foreskin explants with biopsies of initial human genital herpes lesions to show LCs are initially infected then emigrate into the dermis . Here , LCs bearing markers of maturation and apoptosis formed large cell clusters with BDCA3+ dermal DCs ( thought to be equivalent to murine CD103+ dermal DCs ) and DC-SIGN+ DCs/macrophages . HSV-expressing LC fragments were observed inside the dermal DCs/macrophages and the BDCA3+ dermal DCs had up-regulated a damaged cell uptake receptor CLEC9A . No other infected epidermal cells inter
An important area in the cell biology of intracellular parasitism is the customization of parasitophorous vacuoles ( PVs ) by prokaryotic or eukaryotic intracellular microorganisms . We were curious to compare PV biogenesis in primary mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages exposed to carefully prepared amastigotes of either Leishmania major or L . amazonensis . While tight-fitting PVs are housing one or two L . major amastigotes , giant PVs are housing many L . amazonensis amastigotes . In this study , using multidimensional imaging of live cells , we compare and characterize the PV biogenesis/remodeling of macrophages i ) hosting amastigotes of either L . major or L . amazonensis and ii ) loaded with Lysotracker , a lysosomotropic fluorescent probe . Three dynamic features of Leishmania amastigote-hosting PVs are documented: they range from i ) entry of Lysotracker transients within tight-fitting , fission-prone L . major amastigote-housing PVs; ii ) the decrease in the number of macro
Homology-directed repair is a powerful mechanism for maintaining and altering genomic structure . We asked how chromatin structure contributes to the use of homologous sequences as donors for repair using the chicken B cell line DT40 as a model . In DT40 , immunoglobulin genes undergo regulated sequence diversification by gene conversion templated by pseudogene donors . We found that the immunoglobulin Vλ pseudogene array is characterized by histone modifications associated with active chromatin . We directly demonstrated the importance of chromatin structure for gene conversion , using a regulatable experimental system in which the heterochromatin protein HP1 ( Drosophila melanogaster Su[var]205 ) , expressed as a fusion to Escherichia coli lactose repressor , is tethered to polymerized lactose operators integrated within the pseudo-Vλ donor array . Tethered HP1 diminished histone acetylation within the pseudo-Vλ array , and altered the outcome of Vλ diversification , so that nontempl
The cerebellum allows us to rapidly adjust motor behavior to the needs of the situation . It is commonly assumed that cerebellum-based motor learning is guided by the difference between the desired and the actual behavior , i . e . , by error information . Not only immediate but also future behavior will benefit from an error because it induces lasting changes of parallel fiber synapses on Purkinje cells ( PCs ) , whose output mediates the behavioral adjustments . Olivary climbing fibers , likewise connecting with PCs , are thought to transport information on instant errors needed for the synaptic modification yet not to contribute to error memory . Here , we report work on monkeys tested in a saccadic learning paradigm that challenges this concept . We demonstrate not only a clear complex spikes ( CS ) signature of the error at the time of its occurrence but also a reverberation of this signature much later , before a new manifestation of the behavior , suitable to improve it . 
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease characterized by selective loss of motor neurons with inclusions frequently containing the RNA/DNA binding protein TDP-43 . Using a yeast model of ALS exhibiting TDP-43 dependent toxicity , we now show that TDP-43 overexpression dramatically alters cell shape and reduces ubiquitin dependent proteolysis of a reporter construct . Furthermore , we show that an excess of the Hsp40 chaperone , Sis1 , reduced TDP-43’s effect on toxicity , cell shape and proteolysis . The strength of these effects was influenced by the presence of the endogenous yeast prion , [PIN+] . Although overexpression of Sis1 altered the TDP-43 aggregation pattern , we did not detect physical association of Sis1 with TDP-43 , suggesting the possibility of indirect effects on TDP-43 aggregation . Furthermore , overexpression of the mammalian Sis1 homologue , DNAJB1 , relieves TDP-43 mediated toxicity in primary rodent cortical neurons , sug
Chagas disease is still a major public health issue in many Latin American countries . One of the current major challenges is to find an association between Trypanosoma cruzi discrete typing units ( DTUs ) and clinical manifestations of the disease . In this study , we used a multilocus conventional PCR and quantitative real time PCR ( qPCR ) approaches to perform the molecular typing and parasite load quantification directly from blood specimens of 65 chronic Chagas disease patients . All patients were recruited at the same health center , but their place of birth were widely distributed in different geographic regions of Brazil . Of the 65 patients , 35 ( 53 . 8% ) presented positive amplification by real time qPCR , being 20 ( 30 . 7% ) with the clinical indeterminate form and 15 ( 23 . 1% ) with the cardiac form of the disease . The parasite load median for all positive patients was 2 . 54 [1 . 43–11 . 14] parasite equivalents/mL ( par . Eq . /mL ) , with the load ranging from 0 . 
Rabies in bats is considered enzootic throughout the New World , but few comparative data are available for most countries in the region . As part of a larger pathogen detection program , enhanced bat rabies surveillance was conducted in Guatemala , between 2009 and 2011 . A total of 672 bats of 31 species were sampled and tested for rabies . The prevalence of rabies virus ( RABV ) detection among all collected bats was low ( 0 . 3% ) . Viral antigens were detected and infectious virus was isolated from the brains of two common vampire bats ( Desmodus rotundus ) . RABV was also isolated from oral swabs , lungs and kidneys of both bats , whereas viral RNA was detected in all of the tissues examined by hemi-nested RT-PCR except for the liver of one bat . Sequencing of the nucleoprotein gene showed that both viruses were 100% identical , whereas sequencing of the glycoprotein gene revealed one non-synonymous substitution ( 302T , S ) . The two vampire bat RABV isolates in this study were 
Posttranslational modification of histones is known to regulate chromatin structure and transcriptional activity , and the nuclear lamina is thought to serve as a site for heterochromatin maintenance and transcriptional silencing . In this report , we show that the nuclear lamina can also play a role in the downregulation of heterochromatin and in gene activation . Herpes simplex virus DNA initiates replication in replication compartments near the inner edge of the nucleus , and histones are excluded from these structures . To define the role of nuclear lamins in HSV replication , we examined HSV infection in wild-type and A-type lamin–deficient ( Lmna−/− ) murine embryonic fibroblasts ( MEFs ) . In Lmna−/− cells , viral replication compartments are reduced in size and fail to target to the nuclear periphery , as observed in WT cells . Chromatin immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence studies demonstrate that HSV DNA is associated with increased heterochromatin in Lmna−/− MEFs . The
Mitochondria originated from proteobacterial endosymbionts , and their transition to organelles was tightly linked to establishment of the protein import pathways . The initial import of most proteins is mediated by the translocase of the outer membrane ( TOM ) . Although TOM is common to all forms of mitochondria , an unexpected diversity of subunits between eukaryotic lineages has been predicted . However , experimental knowledge is limited to a few organisms , and so far , it remains unsettled whether the triplet-pore or the twin-pore structure is the generic form of TOM complex . Here , we analysed the TOM complex in hydrogenosomes , a metabolically specialised anaerobic form of mitochondria found in the excavate Trichomonas vaginalis . We demonstrate that the highly divergent β-barrel T . vaginalis TOM ( TvTom ) 40-2 forms a translocation channel to conduct hydrogenosomal protein import . TvTom40-2 is present in high molecular weight complexes , and their analysis revealed the pre
Inappropriate activation or inadequate regulation of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells may contribute to the initiation and progression of multiple autoimmune and inflammatory diseases . Studies on disease-associated genetic polymorphisms have highlighted the importance of biological context for many regulatory variants , which is particularly relevant in understanding the genetic regulation of the immune system and its cellular phenotypes . Here we show cell type-specific regulation of transcript levels of genes associated with several autoimmune diseases in CD4+ and CD8+ T cells including a trans-acting regulatory locus at chr12q13 . 2 containing the rs1131017 SNP in the RPS26 gene . Most remarkably , we identify a common missense variant in IL27 , associated with type 1 diabetes that results in decreased functional activity of the protein and reduced expression levels of downstream IRF1 and STAT1 in CD4+ T cells only . Altogether , our results indicate that eQTL mapping in purified T cells prov
Socio-cultural and economic factors constitute real barriers for uptake of screening and treatment of Human African Trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) in the Democratic Republic of Congo ( DRC ) . Better understanding and addressing these barriers may enhance the effectiveness of HAT control . We performed a qualitative study consisting of semi-structured interviews and focus group discussions in the Bandundu and Kasaï Oriental provinces , two provinces lagging behind in the HAT elimination effort . Our study population included current and former HAT patients , as well as healthcare providers and program managers of the national HAT control program . All interviews and discussions were voice recorded on a digital device and data were analysed with the ATLAS . ti software . Health workers and community members quoted a number of prohibitions that have to be respected for six months after HAT treatment: no work , no sexual intercourse , no hot food , not walking in the sun . Violating these restri
Since December 2009 , Médecins Sans Frontières has diagnosed and treated patients with visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) in Tabarak Allah Hospital , eastern Gedaref State , one of the main endemic foci of VL in Sudan . A survey was conducted to estimate the VL incidence in villages around Tabarak Allah . Between the 5th of May and the 17th of June 2011 , we conducted an exhaustive door-to-door survey in 45 villages of Al-Gureisha locality . Deaths were investigated by verbal autopsies . All individuals with ( i ) fever of at least two weeks , ( ii ) VL diagnosed and treated in the previous year , and ( iii ) clinical suspicion of post-kala-azar dermal leishmaniasis ( PKDL ) were referred to medical teams for case ascertainment . A new case of VL was a clinical suspect with a positive rk39 rapid test or direct agglutination test ( DAT ) . In the 45 villages screened , 17 , 702 households were interviewed , for a population of 94 , 369 inhabitants . The crude mortality rate over the mean rec
Gyrase catalyzes negative supercoiling of DNA in an ATP-dependent reaction that helps condense bacterial chromosomes into a compact interwound “nucleoid . ” The supercoil density ( σ ) of prokaryotic DNA occurs in two forms . Diffusible supercoil density ( σD ) moves freely around the chromosome in 10 kb domains , and constrained supercoil density ( σC ) results from binding abundant proteins that bend , loop , or unwind DNA at many sites . Diffusible and constrained supercoils contribute roughly equally to the total in vivo negative supercoil density of WT cells , so σ = σC+σD . Unexpectedly , Escherichia coli chromosomes have a 15% higher level of σ compared to Salmonella enterica . To decipher critical mechanisms that can change diffusible supercoil density of chromosomes , we analyzed strains of Salmonella using a 9 kb “supercoil sensor” inserted at ten positions around the genome . The sensor contains a complete Lac operon flanked by directly repeated resolvase binding sites , and
The intracellular protozoan Leishmania replicates in parasitophorous vacuoles ( PV ) that share many features with late endosomes/lysosomes . L . amazonensis PVs expand markedly during infections , but the impact of PV size on parasite intracellular survival is still unknown . Here we show that host cells infected with L . amazonensis upregulate transcription of LYST/Beige , which was previously shown to regulate lysosome size . Mutations in LYST/Beige caused further PV expansion and enhanced L . amazonensis replication . In contrast , LYST/Beige overexpression led to small PVs that did not sustain parasite growth . Treatment of LYST/Beige over-expressing cells with vacuolin-1 reversed this phenotype , expanding PVs and promoting parasite growth . The opposite was seen with E-64d , which reduced PV size in LYST-Beige mutant cells and inhibited L . amazonensis replication . Enlarged PVs appear to protect parasites from oxidative damage , since inhibition of nitric oxide synthase had no 
The mechanisms and treatment of psychomotor retardation , which includes motor and cognitive impairment , are indefinite . The Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome ( AHDS ) is an X-linked psychomotor retardation characterized by delayed development , severe intellectual disability , muscle hypotonia , and spastic paraplegia , in combination with disturbed thyroid hormone ( TH ) parameters . AHDS has been associated with mutations in the monocarboxylate transporter 8 ( mct8/slc16a2 ) gene , which is a TH transporter . In order to determine the pathophysiological mechanisms of AHDS , MCT8 knockout mice were intensively studied . Although these mice faithfully replicated the abnormal serum TH levels , they failed to exhibit the neurological and behavioral symptoms of AHDS patients . Here , we generated an mct8 mutant ( mct8−/− ) zebrafish using zinc-finger nuclease ( ZFN ) -mediated targeted gene editing system . The elimination of MCT8 decreased the expression levels of TH receptors; however , 
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) is a ubiquitous virus that is a major pathogen in newborns and immunocompromised or immunosuppressed patients . HCMV infects a wide variety of cell types using distinct entry pathways that involve different forms of the gH/gL glycoprotein: gH/gL/gO and gH/gL/UL128-131 as well as the viral fusion glycoprotein , gB . However , the minimal or core fusion machinery ( sufficient for cell-cell fusion ) is just gH/gL and gB . Here , we demonstrate that HCMV gB and gH/gL form a stable complex early after their synthesis and in the absence of other viral proteins . gH/gL can interact with gB mutants that are unable to mediate cell-cell fusion . gB-gH/gL complexes included as much as 16–50% of the total gH/gL in HCMV virus particles . In contrast , only small amounts of gH/gL/gO and gH/gL/UL128-131 complexes were found associated with gB . All herpesviruses express gB and gH/gL molecules and most models describing herpesvirus entry suggest that gH/gL interacts with
Mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) sequence variants segregate in mutation and tissue-specific manners , but the mechanisms remain unknown . The segregation pattern of pathogenic mtDNA mutations is a major determinant of the onset and severity of disease . Using a heteroplasmic mouse model , we demonstrate that Gimap3 , an outer mitochondrial membrane GTPase , is a critical regulator of this process in leukocytes . Gimap3 is important for T cell development and survival , suggesting that leukocyte survival may be a key factor in the genetic regulation of mtDNA sequence variants and in modulating human mitochondrial diseases . 
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a geographically-restricted infection caused by Mycobacterium ulcerans; contact with an endemic region is the primary risk factor for disease acquisition . Globally , efforts to estimate the incubation period of BU are often hindered as most patients reside permanently in endemic areas . However , in the south-eastern Australian state of Victoria , a significant proportion of people who acquire BU are visitors to endemic regions . During a sustained outbreak of BU on the Bellarine peninsula we estimated a mean incubation period of 4 . 5 months . Since then cases on the Bellarine peninsula have declined but a new endemic area has developed centred on the Mornington peninsula . Retrospective review of 443 cases of BU notified in Victoria between 2013 and 2016 . Telephone interviews were performed to identify all cases with a single visit to an endemic region , or multiple visits within a one month period . The incubation period was defined as the time between expos
Several proteins that play key roles in cholesterol synthesis , regulation , trafficking and signaling are united by sharing the phylogenetically conserved ‘sterol-sensing domain’ ( SSD ) . The intracellular parasite Toxoplasma possesses at least one gene coding for a protein containing the canonical SSD . We investigated the role of this protein to provide information on lipid regulatory mechanisms in the parasite . The protein sequence predicts an uncharacterized Niemann-Pick , type C1-related protein ( NPC1 ) with significant identity to human NPC1 , and it contains many residues implicated in human NPC disease . We named this NPC1-related protein , TgNCR1 . Mammalian NPC1 localizes to endo-lysosomes and promotes the movement of sterols and sphingolipids across the membranes of these organelles . Miscoding patient mutations in NPC1 cause overloading of these lipids in endo-lysosomes . TgNCR1 , however , lacks endosomal targeting signals , and localizes to flattened vesicles beneath 
Ophthalmo-acromelic syndrome ( OAS ) , also known as Waardenburg Anophthalmia syndrome , is defined by the combination of eye malformations , most commonly bilateral anophthalmia , with post-axial oligosyndactyly . Homozygosity mapping and subsequent targeted mutation analysis of a locus on 14q24 . 2 identified homozygous mutations in SMOC1 ( SPARC-related modular calcium binding 1 ) in eight unrelated families . Four of these mutations are nonsense , two frame-shift , and two missense . The missense mutations are both in the second Thyroglobulin Type-1 ( Tg1 ) domain of the protein . The orthologous gene in the mouse , Smoc1 , shows site- and stage-specific expression during eye , limb , craniofacial , and somite development . We also report a targeted pre-conditional gene-trap mutation of Smoc1 ( Smoc1tm1a ) that reduces mRNA to ∼10% of wild-type levels . This gene-trap results in highly penetrant hindlimb post-axial oligosyndactyly in homozygous mutant animals ( Smoc1tm1a/tm1a ) . E
Treatment of human cells with Type 1 interferons restricts HIV replication . Here we report that the tripartite motif protein TRIM22 is a key mediator . We used transcriptional profiling to identify cellular genes that were induced by interferon treatment and identified TRIM22 as one of the most strongly up-regulated genes . We confirmed , as in previous studies , that TRIM22 over-expression inhibited HIV replication . To assess the role of TRIM22 expressed under natural inducing conditions , we compared the effects of interferon in cells depleted for TRIM22 using RNAi and found that HIV particle release was significantly increased in the knockdown , implying that TRIM22 acts as a natural antiviral effector . Further studies showed that TRIM22 inhibited budding of virus-like particles containing Gag only , indicating that Gag was the target of TRIM22 . TRIM22 did not block the release of MLV or EIAV Gag particles . Inhibition was associated with diffuse cytoplasmic staining of HIV Gag 
Mutualisms are interspecific interactions in which both players benefit . Explaining their maintenance is problematic , because cheaters should outcompete cooperative conspecifics , leading to mutualism instability . Monoecious figs ( Ficus ) are pollinated by host-specific wasps ( Agaonidae ) , whose larvae gall ovules in their “fruits” ( syconia ) . Female pollinating wasps oviposit directly into Ficus ovules from inside the receptive syconium . Across Ficus species , there is a widely documented segregation of pollinator galls in inner ovules and seeds in outer ovules . This pattern suggests that wasps avoid , or are prevented from ovipositing into , outer ovules , and this results in mutualism stability . However , the mechanisms preventing wasps from exploiting outer ovules remain unknown . We report that in Ficus rubiginosa , offspring in outer ovules are vulnerable to attack by parasitic wasps that oviposit from outside the syconium . Parasitism risk decreases towards the centre
Vertical growth of plants is a dynamic process that is influenced by genetic and environmental factors and has a pronounced effect on overall plant architecture and biomass composition . We have performed six controlled growth trials of an interspecific Setaria italica x Setaria viridis recombinant inbred line population to assess how the genetic architecture of plant height is influenced by developmental queues , water availability and planting density . The non-destructive nature of plant height measurements has enabled us to monitor height throughout the plant life cycle in both field and controlled environments . We find that plant height is reduced under water limitation and high density planting and affected by growth environment ( field vs . growth chamber ) . The results support a model where plant height is a heritable , polygenic trait and that the major genetic loci that influence plant height function independent of growth environment . The identity and contribution of loci
The wetlands of the Brazilian Pantanal host large concentrations of diverse wildlife species and hematophagous arthropods , conditions that favor the circulation of zoonotic arboviruses . A recent study from the Nhecolândia sub-region of Pantanal reported serological evidence of various flaviviruses , including West Nile virus and Ilheus virus ( ILHV ) . According to the age of seropositive horses , at least three flaviviruses , including ILHV , circulated in the Brazilian Pantanal between 2005 and 2009 . To extend this study , we collected 3 , 234 adult mosquitoes of 16 species during 2009 and 2010 in the same sub-region . Mosquito pool homogenates were assayed for infectious virus on C6/36 and Vero cell monolayers and also tested for flaviviral RNA by a group-specific real-time RT-PCR . One pool containing 50 non-engorged female specimens of Aedes scapularis tested positive for ILHV by culture and for ILHV RNA by real-time RT-PCR , indicating a minimum infection rate of 2 . 5 per 100
Scabies is one of the commonest dermatological conditions globally; however it is a largely underexplored and truly neglected infectious disease . Foremost , improvement in the management of this public health burden is imperative . Current treatments with topical agents and/or oral ivermectin ( IVM ) are insufficient and drug resistance is emerging . Moxidectin ( MOX ) , with more advantageous pharmacological profiles may be a promising alternative . Using a porcine scabies model , 12 pigs were randomly assigned to receive orally either MOX ( 0 . 3 mg/kg once ) , IVM ( 0 . 2 mg/kg twice ) or no treatment . We evaluated treatment efficacies by assessing mite count , clinical lesions , pruritus and ELISA-determined anti-S . scabiei IgG antibodies reductions . Plasma and skin pharmacokinetic profiles were determined . At day 14 post-treatment , all four MOX-treated but only two IVM-treated pigs were mite-free . MOX efficacy was 100% and remained unchanged until study-end ( D47 ) , compar
Many important cellular processes are performed by molecular machines , composed of multiple proteins that physically interact to execute biological functions . An example is the bacterial peptidoglycan ( PG ) synthesis machine , responsible for the synthesis of the main component of the cell wall and the target of many contemporary antibiotics . One approach for the identification of essential components of a cellular machine involves the determination of its minimal protein composition . Staphylococcus aureus is a Gram-positive pathogen , renowned for its resistance to many commonly used antibiotics and prevalence in hospitals . Its genome encodes a low number of proteins with PG synthesis activity ( 9 proteins ) , when compared to other model organisms , and is therefore a good model for the study of a minimal PG synthesis machine . We deleted seven of the nine genes encoding PG synthesis enzymes from the S . aureus genome without affecting normal growth or cell morphology , generat
Burkholderia pseudomallei is a mostly saprophytic bacterium , but can infect humans where it causes the difficult-to-manage disease melioidosis . Even with proper diagnosis and prompt therapeutic interventions mortality rates still range from >20% in Northern Australia to over 40% in Thailand . Surprisingly little is yet known about how B . pseudomallei infects , invades and survives within its hosts , and virtually nothing is known about the contribution of critical nutrients such as iron to the bacterium's pathogenesis . It was previously assumed that B . pseudomallei used iron-acquisition systems commonly found in other bacteria , for example siderophores . However , our previous discovery of a clinical isolate carrying a large chromosomal deletion missing the entire malleobactin gene cluster encoding the bacterium's major high-affinity siderophore while still being fully virulent in a murine melioidosis model suggested that other iron-acquisition systems might make contributions to
Understanding cellular function requires accurate , comprehensive representations of metabolism . Genome-scale , constraint-based metabolic models ( GSMs ) provide such representations , but their usability is often hampered by inconsistencies at various levels , in particular for concurrent models . COMMGEN , our tool for COnsensus Metabolic Model GENeration , automatically identifies inconsistencies between concurrent models and semi-automatically resolves them , thereby contributing to consolidate knowledge of metabolic function . Tests of COMMGEN for four organisms showed that automatically generated consensus models were predictive and that they substantially increased coherence of knowledge representation . COMMGEN ought to be particularly useful for complex scenarios in which manual curation does not scale , such as for eukaryotic organisms , microbial communities , and host-pathogen interactions . 
Differentiating cells interact with their extracellular environment over time . Chondrocytes embed themselves in a proteoglycan ( PG ) -rich matrix , then undergo a developmental transition , termed “maturation , ” when they express ihh to induce bone in the overlying tissue , the perichondrium . Here , we ask whether PGs regulate interactions between chondrocytes and perichondrium , using zebrafish mutants to reveal that cartilage PGs inhibit chondrocyte maturation , which ultimately dictates the timing of perichondral bone development . In a mutagenesis screen , we isolated a class of mutants with decreased cartilage matrix and increased perichondral bone . Positional cloning identified lesions in two genes , fam20b and xylosyltransferase1 ( xylt1 ) , both of which encode PG synthesis enzymes . Mutants failed to produce wild-type levels of chondroitin sulfate PGs , which are normally abundant in cartilage matrix , and initiated perichondral bone formation earlier than their wild-type
Heterochromatic homology ensures the segregation of achiasmate chromosomes during meiosis I in Drosophila melanogaster females , perhaps as a consequence of the heterochromatic threads that connect achiasmate homologs during prometaphase I . Here , we ask how these threads , and other possible heterochromatic entanglements , are resolved prior to anaphase I . We show that the knockdown of Topoisomerase II ( Top2 ) by RNAi in the later stages of meiosis results in a specific defect in the separation of heterochromatic regions after spindle assembly . In Top2 RNAi-expressing oocytes , heterochromatic regions of both achiasmate and chiasmate chromosomes often failed to separate during prometaphase I and metaphase I . Heterochromatic regions were stretched into long , abnormal projections with centromeres localizing near the tips of the projections in some oocytes . Despite these anomalies , we observed bipolar spindles in most Top2 RNAi-expressing oocytes , although the obligately achiasm
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is a zoonosis of great importance . Limitations in current VL control measures compromise efficacy , indicating the need to implement new strategies . The aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of the mass use of deltamethrin-impregnated collars in dogs as a public health measure to control and prevent canine visceral leishmaniasis ( CVL ) . An interventional study was implemented in two endemic areas in the district of Monte Gordo ( Bahia-Brazil ) : an intervention area , in which VL seronegative dogs were collared , and a control area in which only conventional CVL control measures were applied . At baseline , seropositive dogs were removed and seronegative dogs were included . Dogs were then reevaluated every 7–8 months for almost two years . At each time point , dogs in the intervention area that remained seronegative received new collars and newly identified seronegative dogs were included and collared . The local zoonosis control authori
X chromosomes are unusual in many regards , not least of which is their nonrandom gene content . The causes of this bias are commonly discussed in the context of sexual antagonism and the avoidance of activity in the male germline . Here , we examine the notion that , at least in some taxa , functionally biased gene content may more profoundly be shaped by limits imposed on gene expression owing to haploid expression of the X chromosome . Notably , if the X , as in primates , is transcribed at rates comparable to the ancestral rate ( per promoter ) prior to the X chromosome formation , then the X is not a tolerable environment for genes with very high maximal net levels of expression , owing to transcriptional traffic jams . We test this hypothesis using The Encyclopedia of DNA Elements ( ENCODE ) and data from the Functional Annotation of the Mammalian Genome ( FANTOM5 ) project . As predicted , the maximal expression of human X-linked genes is much lower than that of genes on autosom
Both anatomically modern humans and the gastric pathogen Helicobacter pylori originated in Africa , and both species have been associated for at least 100 , 000 years . Seven geographically distinct H . pylori populations exist , three of which are indigenous to Africa: hpAfrica1 , hpAfrica2 , and hpNEAfrica . The oldest and most divergent population , hpAfrica2 , evolved within San hunter-gatherers , who represent one of the deepest branches of the human population tree . Anticipating the presence of ancient H . pylori lineages within all hunter-gatherer populations , we investigated the prevalence and population structure of H . pylori within Baka Pygmies in Cameroon . Gastric biopsies were obtained by esophagogastroduodenoscopy from 77 Baka from two geographically separated populations , and from 101 non-Baka individuals from neighboring agriculturalist populations , and subsequently cultured for H . pylori . Unexpectedly , Baka Pygmies showed a significantly lower H . pylori infect
Dengue virus NS5 is the most highly conserved amongst the viral non-structural proteins and is responsible for capping , methylation and replication of the flavivirus RNA genome . Interactions of NS5 with host proteins also modulate host immune responses . Although replication occurs in the cytoplasm , an unusual characteristic of DENV2 NS5 is that it localizes to the nucleus during infection with no clear role in replication or pathogenesis . We examined NS5 of DENV1 and 2 , which exhibit the most prominent difference in nuclear localization , employing a combination of functional and structural analyses . Extensive gene swapping between DENV1 and 2 NS5 identified that the C-terminal 18 residues ( Cter18 ) alone was sufficient to direct the protein to the cytoplasm or nucleus , respectively . The low micromolar binding affinity between NS5 Cter18 and the nuclear import receptor importin-alpha ( Impα ) , allowed their molecular complex to be purified , crystallised and visualized at 2 
Vertical control and elimination programs focused on specific neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) can achieve notable success by reducing the prevalence and intensity of infection . However , many NTD-endemic countries have not been able to launch or scale-up programs because they lack the necessary baseline data for planning and advocacy . Each NTD program has its own mapping guidelines to collect missing data . Where geographic overlap among NTDs exists , an integrated mapping approach could result in significant resource savings . We developed and field-tested an innovative integrated NTD mapping protocol ( Integrated Threshold Mapping ( ITM ) Methodology ) for lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) , trachoma , schistosomiasis and soil-transmitted helminths ( STH ) . The protocol is designed to be resource-efficient , and its specific purpose is to determine whether a threshold to trigger public health interventions in an implementation unit has been attained . The protocol relies on World H
In Saccharomyces cerevisiae , the conserved phosphatase Cdc14 is required for the exit from mitosis . It is anchored on nucleolar chromatin by the Cfi1/Net1 protein until early anaphase , at which time it is released into the nucleoplasm . Two poorly understood , redundant pathways promote Cdc14 release , the FEAR ( Cdc fourteen early release ) network and the MEN ( mitotic exit network ) . Through the analysis of genetic interactions , we report here a novel requirement for the ubiquitination of histone H2B by the Bre1 ubiquitin ligase in the cell cycle–dependent release of Cdc14 from nucleolar chromatin when the MEN is inactivated . This function for H2B ubiquitination is mediated by its activation of histone H3 methylation on lysines 4 and 79 ( meH3K4 and meH3K79 ) but , surprisingly , is not dependent on the histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) Sir2 , which associates with Cdc14 on nucleolar chromatin as part of the RENT complex . We also observed a defect in Cdc14 release in cells lacking
An important research problem in computational biology is the identification of expression programs , sets of co-expressed genes orchestrating normal or pathological processes , and the characterization of the functional breadth of these programs . The use of human expression data compendia for discovery of such programs presents several challenges including cellular inhomogeneity within samples , genetic and environmental variation across samples , uncertainty in the numbers of programs and sample populations , and temporal behavior . We developed GeneProgram , a new unsupervised computational framework based on Hierarchical Dirichlet Processes that addresses each of the above challenges . GeneProgram uses expression data to simultaneously organize tissues into groups and genes into overlapping programs with consistent temporal behavior , to produce maps of expression programs , which are sorted by generality scores that exploit the automatically learned groupings . Using synthetic an
Memory type 1 T helper ( TH1 ) cells are characterized by the stable expression of interferon ( IFN ) -γ as well as by the epigenetic imprinting of the IFNG locus . Among innate cells , NK cells play a crucial role in the defense against cytomegalovirus ( CMV ) and represent the main source of IFN-γ . Recently , it was shown that memory-like features can be observed in NK cell subsets after CMV infection . However , the molecular mechanisms underlying NK cell adaptive properties have not been completely defined . In the present study , we demonstrated that only NKG2Chi NK cells expanded in human CMV ( HCMV ) seropositive individuals underwent epigenetic remodeling of the IFNG conserved non-coding sequence ( CNS ) 1 , similar to memory CD8+ T cells or TH1 cells . The accessibility of the CNS1 was required to enhance IFN-γ transcriptional activity in response to NKG2C and 2B4 engagement , which led to consistent IFN-γ production in NKG2Chi NK cells . Thus , our data identify epigenetic i
Pathogen-associated secretion systems translocate numerous effector proteins into eukaryotic host cells to coordinate cellular processes important for infection . Spatiotemporal regulation is therefore important for modulating distinct activities of effectors at different stages of infection . Here we provide the first evidence of “metaeffector , ” a designation for an effector protein that regulates the function of another effector within the host cell . Legionella LubX protein functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase that hijacks the host proteasome to specifically target the bacterial effector protein SidH for degradation . Delayed delivery of LubX to the host cytoplasm leads to the shutdown of SidH within the host cells at later stages of infection . This demonstrates a sophisticated level of coevolution between eukaryotic cells and L . pneumophila involving an effector that functions as a key regulator to temporally coordinate the function of a cognate effector protein . 
The pattern of viral diversification in newly infected individuals provides information about the host environment and immune responses typically experienced by the newly transmitted virus . For example , sites that tend to evolve rapidly across multiple early-infection patients could be involved in enabling escape from common early immune responses , could represent adaptation for rapid growth in a newly infected host , or could represent reversion from less fit forms of the virus that were selected for immune escape in previous hosts . Here we investigated the diversification of HIV-1 env coding sequences in 81 very early B subtype infections previously shown to have resulted from transmission or expansion of single viruses ( n = 78 ) or two closely related viruses ( n = 3 ) . In these cases , the sequence of the infecting virus can be estimated accurately , enabling inference of both the direction of substitutions as well as distinction between insertion and deletion events . By int
We introduce and analyze a minimal model of epigenetic silencing in budding yeast , built upon known biomolecular interactions in the system . Doing so , we identify the epigenetic marks essential for the bistability of epigenetic states . The model explicitly incorporates two key chromatin marks , namely H4K16 acetylation and H3K79 methylation , and explores whether the presence of multiple marks lead to a qualitatively different systems behavior . We find that having both modifications is important for the robustness of epigenetic silencing . Besides the silenced and transcriptionally active fate of chromatin , our model leads to a novel state with bivalent ( i . e . , both active and silencing ) marks under certain perturbations ( knock-out mutations , inhibition or enhancement of enzymatic activity ) . The bivalent state appears under several perturbations and is shown to result in patchy silencing . We also show that the titration effect , owing to a limited supply of silencing pr
Severe acute malnutrition ( SAM ) among children remains a major health problem in many developing countries . SAM manifests in both an oedematous and a non-oedematous form , with oedematous malnutrition in its most severe form also known as kwashiorkor . The pathogenesis of both types of malnutrition in children remains largely unknown , but gut microbiota ( GM ) dysbiosis has recently been linked to oedematous malnutrition . In the present study we aimed to assess whether GM composition differed between Ugandan children suffering from either oedematous or non-oedematous malnutrition . As part of an observational study among children hospitalized with SAM aged 6–24 months in Uganda , fecal samples were collected at admission . Total genomic DNA was extracted from fecal samples , and PCR amplification was performed followed by Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis ( DGGE ) and tag-encoded 16S rRNA gene-targeted high throughput amplicon sequencing . Alpha and beta diversity measures w
In yeast , as in humans , telomere length varies among individuals and is controlled by multiple loci . In a quest to define the extent of variation in telomere length , we screened 112 wild-type Saccharomyces sensu stricto isolates . We found extensive telomere length variation in S . paradoxus isolates . This phenotype correlated with their geographic origin: European strains were observed to have extremely short telomeres ( <150 bp ) , whereas American isolates had telomeres approximately three times as long ( >400 bp ) . Insertions of a URA3 gene near telomeres allowed accurate analysis of individual telomere lengths and telomere position effect ( TPE ) . Crossing the American and European strains resulted in F1 spores with a continuum of telomere lengths consistent with what would be predicted if many quantitative trait loci ( QTLs ) were involved in length maintenance . Variation in TPE is similarly quantitative but only weakly correlated with telomere length . Genotyping F1 segr
Understanding the cognitive and neural processes that underlie human decision making requires the successful prediction of how , but also of when , people choose . Sequential sampling models ( SSMs ) have greatly advanced the decision sciences by assuming decisions to emerge from a bounded evidence accumulation process so that response times ( RTs ) become predictable . Here , we demonstrate a difficulty of SSMs that occurs when people are not forced to respond at once but are allowed to sample information sequentially: The decision maker might decide to delay the choice and terminate the accumulation process temporarily , a scenario not accounted for by the standard SSM approach . We developed several SSMs for predicting RTs from two independent samples of an electroencephalography ( EEG ) and a functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ) study . In these studies , participants bought or rejected fictitious stocks based on sequentially presented cues and were free to respond at any
Hereditary nasal parakeratosis ( HNPK ) , an inherited monogenic autosomal recessive skin disorder , leads to crusts and fissures on the nasal planum of Labrador Retrievers . We performed a genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) using 13 HNPK cases and 23 controls . We obtained a single strong association signal on chromosome 2 ( praw = 4 . 4×10−14 ) . The analysis of shared haplotypes among the 13 cases defined a critical interval of 1 . 6 Mb with 25 predicted genes . We re-sequenced the genome of one case at 38× coverage and detected 3 non-synonymous variants in the critical interval with respect to the reference genome assembly . We genotyped these variants in larger cohorts of dogs and only one was perfectly associated with the HNPK phenotype in a cohort of more than 500 dogs . This candidate causative variant is a missense variant in the SUV39H2 gene encoding a histone 3 lysine 9 ( H3K9 ) methyltransferase , which mediates chromatin silencing . The variant c . 972T>G is predicted 
Genetic reassortment between influenza A viruses ( IAVs ) facilitate emergence of pandemic strains , and swine are proposed as a “mixing vessel” for generating reassortants of avian and mammalian IAVs that could be of risk to mammals , including humans . However , how a transmissible reassortant emerges in swine are not well understood . Genomic analyses of 571 isolates recovered from nasal wash samples and respiratory tract tissues of a group of co-housed pigs ( influenza-seronegative , avian H1N1 IAV–infected , and swine H3N2 IAV–infected pigs ) identified 30 distinct genotypes of reassortants . Viruses recovered from lower respiratory tract tissues had the largest genomic diversity , and those recovered from turbinates and nasal wash fluids had the least . Reassortants from lower respiratory tracts had the largest variations in growth kinetics in respiratory tract epithelial cells , and the cold temperature in swine nasal cells seemed to select the type of reassortant viruses shed b
Offspring of Schistosoma mansoni-infected women in schistosomiasis-endemic areas may be sensitised in-utero . This may influence their immune responsiveness to schistosome infection and schistosomiasis-associated morbidity . Effects of praziquantel treatment of S . mansoni during pregnancy on risk of S . mansoni infection among offspring , and on their immune responsiveness when they become exposed to S . mansoni , are unknown . Here we examined effects of praziquantel treatment of S . mansoni during pregnancy on prevalence of S . mansoni and immune responsiveness among offspring at age five years . In a trial in Uganda ( ISRCTN32849447 , http://www . controlled-trials . com/ISRCTN32849447/elliott ) , offspring of women treated with praziquantel or placebo during pregnancy were examined for S . mansoni infection and for cytokine and antibody responses to SWA and SEA , as well as for T cell expression of FoxP3 , at age five years . Of the 1343 children examined , 32 ( 2 . 4% ) had S . m
Following an infectious challenge , macrophages have to be activated in order to allow efficient clearance of infectious pathogens , but how macrophage activation is coupled to increased clearance remains largely unknown . We here describe that inflammatory stimuli induced the reprogramming of the macrophage endocytic machinery from receptor-mediated phagocytosis to macropinocytosis , allowing the rapid transfer of internalized cargo to lysosomes in a receptor-independent manner . Reprogramming occurred through protein kinase C-mediated phosphorylation of the macrophage protein coronin 1 , thereby activating phosphoinositol ( PI ) -3-kinase activity necessary for macropinocytic uptake . Expression of a phosphomimetic form of coronin 1 was sufficient to induce PI3-kinase activation and macropinocytosis even in the absence of inflammatory stimuli . Together these results suggest a hitherto unknown mechanism to regulate the internalization and degradation of infectious material during inf
There is renewed vigour in efforts to eliminate neglected tropical diseases including sleeping sickness ( human African trypanosomiasis or HAT ) , including attempts to develop more cost-effective methods of tsetse control . In the West Nile region of Uganda , newly designed insecticide-treated targets are being deployed over an area of ∼500 km2 . The operational area covers villages where tsetse control has not been conducted previously . The effectiveness of the targets will depend , in part , on their acceptance by the local community . We assessed knowledge , perceptions and acceptance of tsetse baits ( traps , targets ) in villages where they had or had not been used previously . We conducted sixteen focus group discussions with male and female participants in eight villages across Arua District . Discussions were audio recorded , translated and transcribed . We used thematic analysis to compare the views of both groups and identify salient themes . Despite the villages being less
Recombination is a fundamental biological process with profound evolutionary implications . Theory predicts that recombination increases the effectiveness of selection in natural populations . Yet , direct tests of this prediction have been restricted to qualitative trends due to the lack of detailed characterization of recombination rate variation across genomes and within species . The use of imprecise recombination rates can also skew population genetic analyses designed to assess the presence and mode of selection across genomes . Here we report the first integrated high-resolution description of genomic and population variation in recombination , which also distinguishes between the two outcomes of meiotic recombination: crossing over ( CO ) and gene conversion ( GC ) . We characterized the products of 5 , 860 female meioses in Drosophila melanogaster by genotyping a total of 139 million informative SNPs and mapped 106 , 964 recombination events at a resolution down to 2 kilobases
IDN2/RDM12 has been previously identified as a component of the RNA–directed DNA methylation ( RdDM ) machinery in Arabidopsis thaliana , but how it functions in RdDM remains unknown . By affinity purification of IDN2 , we co-purified two IDN2 paralogs IDP1 and IDP2 ( IDN2 PARALOG 1 and 2 ) . The coiled-coil domain between the XS and XH domains of IDN2 is essential for IDN2 homodimerization , whereas the IDN2 C-terminal XH domain but not the coiled-coil domain is required for IDN2 interaction with IDP1 and IDP2 . By introducing the wild-type IDN2 sequence and its mutated derivatives into the idn2 mutant for complementation testing , we demonstrated that the previously uncharacterized IDN2 XH domain is required for the IDN2-IDP1/IDP2 complex formation as well as for IDN2 function . IDP1 is required for de novo DNA methylation , siRNA accumulation , and transcriptional gene silencing , whereas IDP2 has partially overlapping roles with IDP1 . Unlike IDN2 , IDP1 and IDP2 are incapable of b
Neutrophils are the first line of defense against invading pathogens and are rapidly recruited to the sites of Leishmania inoculation . During Leishmania braziliensis infection , depletion of inflammatory cells significantly increases the parasite load whereas co-inoculation of neutrophils plus L . braziliensis had an opposite effect . Moreover , the co-culture of infected macrophages and neutrophils also induced parasite killing leading us to ask how neutrophils alone respond to an L . braziliensis exposure . Herein we focused on understanding the interaction between neutrophils and L . braziliensis , exploring cell activation and apoptotic fate . Inoculation of serum-opsonized L . braziliensis promastigotes in mice induced neutrophil accumulation in vivo , peaking at 24 h . In vitro , exposure of thyoglycollate-elicited inflammatory or bone marrow neutrophils to L . braziliensis modulated the expression of surface molecules such as CD18 and CD62L , and induced the oxidative burst . U
Vaccination for the control of bovine tuberculosis ( bTB ) in cattle is not currently used within any international control program , and is illegal within the EU . Candidate vaccines , based upon Mycobacterium bovis bacillus Calmette-Guérin ( BCG ) all interfere with the action of the tuberculin skin test , which is used to determine if animals , herds and countries are officially bTB-free . New diagnostic tests that Differentiate Infected from Vaccinated Animals ( DIVA ) offer the potential to introduce vaccination within existing eradication programs . We use within-herd transmission models estimated from historical data from Great Britain ( GB ) to explore the feasibility of such supplemental use of vaccination . The economic impact of bovine Tuberculosis for farmers is dominated by the costs associated with testing , and associated restrictions on animal movements . Farmers’ willingness to adopt vaccination will require vaccination to not only reduce the burden of infection , but 
Trichuris trichiura is a human parasitic whipworm infecting around 500 million people globally , damaging the physical growth and educational performance of those infected . Current drug treatment options are limited and lack efficacy against the worm , preventing an eradication programme . It is therefore important to develop new treatments for trichuriasis . Using Trichuris muris , an established model for T . trichiura , we screened a library of 480 novel drug-like small molecules for compounds causing paralysis of the ex vivo adult parasite . We identified a class of dihydrobenz[e][1 , 4]oxazepin-2 ( 3H ) -one compounds with anthelmintic activity against T . muris . Further screening of structurally related compounds and resynthesis of the most potent molecules led to the identification of 20 active dihydrobenzoxazepinones , a class of molecule not previously implicated in nematode control . The most active immobilise adult T . muris with EC50 values around 25–50μM , comparable to 
The idea of “date” and “party” hubs has been influential in the study of protein–protein interaction networks . Date hubs display low co-expression with their partners , whilst party hubs have high co-expression . It was proposed that party hubs are local coordinators whereas date hubs are global connectors . Here , we show that the reported importance of date hubs to network connectivity can in fact be attributed to a tiny subset of them . Crucially , these few , extremely central , hubs do not display particularly low expression correlation , undermining the idea of a link between this quantity and hub function . The date/party distinction was originally motivated by an approximately bimodal distribution of hub co-expression; we show that this feature is not always robust to methodological changes . Additionally , topological properties of hubs do not in general correlate with co-expression . However , we find significant correlations between interaction centrality and the functional
Recent years have seen the development of numerous methodologies for reconstructing transmission trees in infectious disease outbreaks from densely sampled whole genome sequence data . However , a fundamental and as of yet poorly addressed limitation of such approaches is the requirement for genetic diversity to arise on epidemiological timescales . Specifically , the position of infected individuals in a transmission tree can only be resolved by genetic data if mutations have accumulated between the sampled pathogen genomes . To quantify and compare the useful genetic diversity expected from genetic data in different pathogen outbreaks , we introduce here the concept of ‘transmission divergence’ , defined as the number of mutations separating whole genome sequences sampled from transmission pairs . Using parameter values obtained by literature review , we simulate outbreak scenarios alongside sequence evolution using two models described in the literature to describe transmission dive
X chromosome inactivation ( XCI ) silences most genes on one X chromosome in female mammals , but some genes escape XCI . To identify escape genes in vivo and to explore molecular mechanisms that regulate this process we analyzed the allele-specific expression and chromatin structure of X-linked genes in mouse tissues and cells with skewed XCI and distinguishable alleles based on single nucleotide polymorphisms . Using a binomial model to assess allelic expression , we demonstrate a continuum between complete silencing and expression from the inactive X ( Xi ) . The validity of the RNA-seq approach was verified using RT-PCR with species-specific primers or Sanger sequencing . Both common escape genes and genes with significant differences in XCI status between tissues were identified . Such genes may be candidates for tissue-specific sex differences . Overall , few genes ( 3–7% ) escape XCI in any of the mouse tissues examined , suggesting stringent silencing and escape controls . In c
Multiple cysteine proteases of malaria parasites are required for maintenance of parasite metabolic homeostasis and egress from the host erythrocyte . In Plasmodium falciparum these proteases appear to mediate the processing of hemoglobin and aspartic proteases ( plasmepsins ) in the acidic food vacuole and the hydrolysis of erythrocyte structural proteins at neutral pH . Two cysteine proteases , vivapain ( VX ) -2 and VX-3 have been characterized in P . vivax , but comprehensive studies of P . vivax cysteine proteases remain elusive . We characterized a novel cysteine protease of P . vivax , VX-4 , of which orthologs appears to have evolved differentially in primate plasmodia with strong cladistic affinity toward those of rodent Plasmodium . Recombinant VX-4 demonstrated dual substrate specificity depending on the surrounding micro-environmental pH . Its hydrolyzing activity against benzyloxycarbonyl-Leu-Arg-4-methyl-coumaryl-7-amide ( Z-Leu-Arg-MCA ) and Z-Phe-Arg-MCA was highest at 
The unique capability of acetogens to ferment a broad range of substrates renders them ideal candidates for the biotechnological production of commodity chemicals . In particular the ability to grow with H2:CO2 or syngas ( a mixture of H2/CO/CO2 ) makes these microorganisms ideal chassis for sustainable bioproduction . However , advanced design strategies for acetogens are currently hampered by incomplete knowledge about their physiology and our inability to accurately predict phenotypes . Here we describe the reconstruction of a novel genome-scale model of metabolism and macromolecular synthesis ( ME-model ) to gain new insights into the biology of the model acetogen Clostridium ljungdahlii . The model represents the first ME-model of a Gram-positive bacterium and captures all major central metabolic , amino acid , nucleotide , lipid , major cofactors , and vitamin synthesis pathways as well as pathways to synthesis RNA and protein molecules necessary to catalyze these reactions , thu
Current genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) are moving towards the use of large cohorts of primary cell lines to study a disease of interest and to assign biological relevance to the genetic signals identified . Here , we use a panel of human osteoblasts ( HObs ) to carry out a transcriptomic survey , similar to recent studies in lymphoblastoid cell lines ( LCLs ) . The distinct nature of HObs and LCLs is reflected by the preferential grouping of cell type–specific genes within biologically and functionally relevant pathways unique to each tissue type . We performed cis-association analysis with SNP genotypes to identify genetic variations of transcript isoforms , and our analysis indicates that differential expression of transcript isoforms in HObs is also partly controlled by cis-regulatory genetic variants . These isoforms are regulated by genetic variants in both a tissue-specific and tissue-independent fashion , and these associations have been confirmed by RT–PCR validation 
Saccharomyces eubayanus is the non-S . cerevisiae parent of the lager-brewing hybrid S . pastorianus . In contrast to most S . cerevisiae and Frohberg-type S . pastorianus strains , S . eubayanus cannot utilize the α-tri-glucoside maltotriose , a major carbohydrate in brewer’s wort . In Saccharomyces yeasts , utilization of maltotriose is encoded by the subtelomeric MAL gene family , and requires transporters for maltotriose uptake . While S . eubayanus strain CBS 12357T harbors four SeMALT genes which enable uptake of the α-di-glucoside maltose , it lacks maltotriose transporter genes . In S . cerevisiae , sequence identity indicates that maltotriose and maltose transporters likely evolved from a shared ancestral gene . To study the evolvability of maltotriose utilization in S . eubayanus CBS 12357T , maltotriose-assimilating mutants obtained after UV mutagenesis were subjected to laboratory evolution in carbon-limited chemostat cultures on maltotriose-enriched wort . An evolved strai
The variants of human influenza virus have caused , and continue to cause , substantial morbidity and mortality . Timely and accurate assessment of their impact on human death is invaluable for influenza planning but presents a substantial challenge , as current approaches rely mostly on intensive and unbiased influenza surveillance . In this study , by proposing a novel host-virus interaction model , we have established a positive correlation between the excess mortalities caused by viral strains of distinct antigenicity and their antigenic distances to their previous strains for each ( sub ) type of seasonal influenza viruses . Based on this relationship , we further develop a method to rapidly assess the mortality burden of influenza A ( H1N1 ) virus by accurately predicting the antigenic distance between A ( H1N1 ) strains . Rapid estimation of influenza mortality burden for new seasonal strains should help formulate a cost-effective response for influenza control and prevention . 
The Asian soybean rust fungus , Phakopsora pachyrhizi , is an obligate biotrophic pathogen causing severe soybean disease epidemics . Molecular mechanisms by which P . pachyrhizi and other rust fungi interact with their host plants are poorly understood . The genomes of all rust fungi encode many small , secreted cysteine-rich proteins ( SSCRP ) . While these proteins are thought to function within the host , their roles are completely unknown . Here , we present the characterization of P . pachyrhizi effector candidate 23 ( PpEC23 ) , a SSCRP that we show to suppress plant immunity . Furthermore , we show that PpEC23 interacts with soybean transcription factor GmSPL12l and that soybean plants in which GmSPL12l is silenced have constitutively active immunity , thereby identifying GmSPL12l as a negative regulator of soybean defenses . Collectively , our data present evidence for a virulence function of a rust SSCRP and suggest that PpEC23 is able to suppress soybean immune responses and
The obligate intracellular bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis invades into host cells to replicate inside a membrane-bound vacuole called inclusion . Multiple different host proteins are recruited to the inclusion and are functionally modulated to support chlamydial development . Invaded and replicating Chlamydia induces a long-lasting activation of the PI3 kinase signaling pathway that is required for efficient replication . We identified the cell surface tyrosine kinase EphrinA2 receptor ( EphA2 ) as a chlamydial adherence and invasion receptor that induces PI3 kinase ( PI3K ) activation , promoting chlamydial replication . Interfering with binding of C . trachomatis serovar L2 ( Ctr ) to EphA2 , downregulation of EphA2 expression or inhibition of EphA2 activity significantly reduced Ctr infection . Ctr interacts with and activates EphA2 on the cell surface resulting in Ctr and receptor internalization . During chlamydial replication , EphA2 remains active accumulating around the inclus
Since the first experimental evidences of active conductances in dendrites , most neurons have been shown to exhibit dendritic excitability through the expression of a variety of voltage-gated ion channels . However , despite experimental and theoretical efforts undertaken in the past decades , the role of this excitability for some kind of dendritic computation has remained elusive . Here we show that , owing to very general properties of excitable media , the average output of a model of an active dendritic tree is a highly non-linear function of its afferent rate , attaining extremely large dynamic ranges ( above 50 dB ) . Moreover , the model yields double-sigmoid response functions as experimentally observed in retinal ganglion cells . We claim that enhancement of dynamic range is the primary functional role of active dendritic conductances . We predict that neurons with larger dendritic trees should have larger dynamic range and that blocking of active conductances should lead to
The inference of regulatory interactions and quantitative models of gene regulation from time-series transcriptomics data has been extensively studied and applied to a range of problems in drug discovery , cancer research , and biotechnology . The application of existing methods is commonly based on implicit assumptions on the biological processes under study . First , the measurements of mRNA abundance obtained in transcriptomics experiments are taken to be representative of protein concentrations . Second , the observed changes in gene expression are assumed to be solely due to transcription factors and other specific regulators , while changes in the activity of the gene expression machinery and other global physiological effects are neglected . While convenient in practice , these assumptions are often not valid and bias the reverse engineering process . Here we systematically investigate , using a combination of models and experiments , the importance of this bias and possible cor
Hotspot detection and characterization has played an increasing role in understanding the maintenance and transmission of zoonotic pathogens . Identifying the specific environmental factors ( or their correlates ) that influence reservoir host abundance help increase understanding of how pathogens are maintained in natural systems and are crucial to identifying disease risk . However , most recent studies are performed at macro-scale and describe broad temporal patterns of population abundances . Few have been conducted at a microscale over short time periods that better capture the dynamical patterns of key populations . These finer resolution studies may better define the likelihood of local pathogen persistence . This study characterizes the landscape distribution and spatio-temporal dynamics of Oligoryzomys fulvescens ( O . fulvescens ) , an important mammalian reservoir in Central America . Information collected in a longitudinal study of rodent populations in the community of Agu
Distinguishing mutations that determine an organism's phenotype from ( near- ) neutral ‘hitchhikers’ is a fundamental challenge in genome research , and is relevant for numerous medical and biotechnological applications . For human influenza viruses , recognizing changes in the antigenic phenotype and a strains' capability to evade pre-existing host immunity is important for the production of efficient vaccines . We have developed a method for inferring ‘antigenic trees’ for the major viral surface protein hemagglutinin . In the antigenic tree , antigenic weights are assigned to all tree branches , which allows us to resolve the antigenic impact of the associated amino acid changes . Our technique predicted antigenic distances with comparable accuracy to antigenic cartography . Additionally , it identified both known and novel sites , and amino acid changes with antigenic impact in the evolution of influenza A ( H3N2 ) viruses from 1968 to 2003 . The technique can also be applied for i
A two-step , high-throughput RNAi silencing screen was used to identify host cell factors required during human papillomavirus type 16 ( HPV16 ) infection . Analysis of validated hits implicated a cluster of mitotic genes and revealed a previously undetermined mechanism for import of the viral DNA ( vDNA ) into the nucleus . In interphase cells , viruses were endocytosed , routed to the perinuclear area , and uncoated , but the vDNA failed to be imported into the nucleus . Upon nuclear envelope perforation in interphase cells HPV16 infection occured . During mitosis , the vDNA and L2 associated with host cell chromatin on the metaphase plate . Hence , we propose that HPV16 requires nuclear envelope breakdown during mitosis for access of the vDNA to the nucleoplasm . The results accentuate the value of genes found by RNAi screens for investigation of viral infections . The list of cell functions required during HPV16 infection will , moreover , provide a resource for future virus-host c
Black Sigatoka or black leaf streak disease , caused by the Dothideomycete fungus Pseudocercospora fijiensis ( previously: Mycosphaerella fijiensis ) , is the most significant foliar disease of banana worldwide . Due to the lack of effective host resistance , management of this disease requires frequent fungicide applications , which greatly increase the economic and environmental costs to produce banana . Weekly applications in most banana plantations lead to rapid evolution of fungicide-resistant strains within populations causing disease-control failures throughout the world . Given its extremely high economic importance , two strains of P . fijiensis were sequenced and assembled with the aid of a new genetic linkage map . The 74-Mb genome of P . fijiensis is massively expanded by LTR retrotransposons , making it the largest genome within the Dothideomycetes . Melting-curve assays suggest that the genomes of two closely related members of the Sigatoka disease complex , P . eumusae a
Changes in cis-regulatory element composition that result in novel patterns of gene expression are thought to be a major contributor to the evolution of lineage-specific traits . Although transcription factor binding events show substantial variation across species , most computational approaches to study regulatory elements focus primarily upon highly conserved sites , and rely heavily upon multiple sequence alignments . However , sequence conservation based approaches have limited ability to detect lineage-specific elements that could contribute to species-specific traits . In this paper , we describe a novel framework that utilizes a birth-death model to trace the evolution of lineage-specific binding sites without relying on detailed base-by-base cross-species alignments . Our model was applied to analyze the evolution of binding sites based on the ChIP-seq data for six transcription factors ( GATA1 , SOX2 , CTCF , MYC , MAX , ETS1 ) along the lineage toward human after human-mouse
For most species , light represents the principal environmental signal for entraining the endogenous circadian clock . The zebrafish is a fascinating vertebrate model for studying this process since unlike mammals , direct exposure of most of its tissues to light leads to local clock entrainment . Importantly , light induces the expression of a set of genes including certain clock genes in most zebrafish cell types in vivo and in vitro . However , the mechanism linking light to gene expression remains poorly understood . To elucidate this key mechanism , here we focus on how light regulates transcription of the zebrafish period2 ( per2 ) gene . Using transgenic fish and stably transfected cell line–based assays , we define a Light Responsive Module ( LRM ) within the per2 promoter . The LRM lies proximal to the transcription start site and is both necessary and sufficient for light-driven gene expression and also for a light-dependent circadian clock regulation . Curiously , the LRM se
Parasites causing malaria need to migrate in order to penetrate tissue barriers and enter host cells . Here we show that the actin filament-binding protein coronin regulates gliding motility in Plasmodium berghei sporozoites , the highly motile forms of a rodent malaria-causing parasite transmitted by mosquitoes . Parasites lacking coronin show motility defects that impair colonization of the mosquito salivary glands but not migration in the skin , yet result in decreased transmission efficiency . In non-motile sporozoites low calcium concentrations mediate actin-independent coronin localization to the periphery . Engagement of extracellular ligands triggers an intracellular calcium release followed by the actin-dependent relocalization of coronin to the rear and initiation of motility . Mutational analysis and imaging suggest that coronin organizes actin filaments for productive motility . Using coronin-mCherry as a marker for the presence of actin filaments we found that protein kina
Amphotericin B is an increasingly important tool in efforts to reduce the global disease burden posed by Leishmania parasites . With few other chemotherapeutic options available for the treatment of leishmaniasis , the potential for emergent resistance to this drug is a considerable threat . Here we characterised four novel amphotericin B-resistant Leishmania mexicana lines . All lines exhibited altered sterol biosynthesis , and hypersensitivity to pentamidine . Whole genome sequencing demonstrated resistance-associated mutation of the sterol biosynthesis gene sterol C5-desaturase in one line . However , in three out of four lines , RNA-seq revealed loss of expression of sterol C24-methyltransferase ( SMT ) responsible for drug resistance and altered sterol biosynthesis . Additional loss of the miltefosine transporter was associated with one of those lines . SMT is encoded by two tandem gene copies , which we found to have very different expression levels . In all cases , reduced overa
The encoding of sensory information in the human brain is thought to be optimised by two principal processes: ‘prediction’ uses stored information to guide the interpretation of forthcoming sensory events , and ‘attention’ prioritizes these events according to their behavioural relevance . Despite the ubiquitous contributions of attention and prediction to various aspects of perception and cognition , it remains unknown how they interact to modulate information processing in the brain . A recent extension of predictive coding theory suggests that attention optimises the expected precision of predictions by modulating the synaptic gain of prediction error units . Because prediction errors code for the difference between predictions and sensory signals , this model would suggest that attention increases the selectivity for mismatch information in the neural response to a surprising stimulus . Alternative predictive coding models propose that attention increases the activity of prediction
The three sub-species of Trypanosoma brucei are important pathogens of sub-Saharan Africa . T . b . brucei is unable to infect humans due to sensitivity to trypanosome lytic factors ( TLF ) 1 and 2 found in human serum . T . b . rhodesiense and T . b . gambiense are able to resist lysis by TLF . There are two distinct sub-groups of T . b . gambiense that differ genetically and by human serum resistance phenotypes . Group 1 T . b . gambiense have an invariant phenotype whereas group 2 show variable resistance . Previous data indicated that group 1 T . b . gambiense are resistant to TLF-1 due in-part to reduced uptake of TLF-1 mediated by reduced expression of the TLF-1 receptor ( the haptoglobin-hemoglobin receptor ( HpHbR ) ) gene . Here we investigate if this is also true in group 2 parasites . Isogenic resistant and sensitive group 2 T . b . gambiense were derived and compared to other T . brucei parasites . Both resistant and sensitive lines express the HpHbR gene at similar levels 
DNA methylation of retroviral promoters and enhancers localized in the provirus 5′ long terminal repeat ( LTR ) is considered to be a mechanism of transcriptional suppression that allows retroviruses to evade host immune responses and antiretroviral drugs . However , the role of DNA methylation in the control of HIV-1 latency has never been unambiguously demonstrated , in contrast to the apparent importance of transcriptional interference and chromatin structure , and has never been studied in HIV-1-infected patients . Here , we show in an in vitro model of reactivable latency and in a latent reservoir of HIV-1-infected patients that CpG methylation of the HIV-1 5′ LTR is an additional epigenetic restriction mechanism , which controls resistance of latent HIV-1 to reactivation signals and thus determines the stability of the HIV-1 latency . CpG methylation acts as a late event during establishment of HIV-1 latency and is not required for the initial provirus silencing . Indeed , the la
Understanding the relationship between genetic and phenotypic variation is one of the great outstanding challenges in biology . To meet this challenge , comprehensive genomic variation maps of human as well as of model organism populations are required . Here , we present a nucleotide resolution catalog of single-nucleotide , multi-nucleotide , and structural variants in 39 Drosophila melanogaster Genetic Reference Panel inbred lines . Using an integrative , local assembly-based approach for variant discovery , we identify more than 3 . 6 million distinct variants , among which were more than 800 , 000 unique insertions , deletions ( indels ) , and complex variants ( 1 to 6 , 000 bp ) . While the SNP density is higher near other variants , we find that variants themselves are not mutagenic , nor are regions with high variant density particularly mutation-prone . Rather , our data suggest that the elevated SNP density around variants is mainly due to population-level processes . We also
The rectified surface EMG signal is commonly used as an estimator of the neural drive to muscles and therefore to infer sources of synaptic input to motor neurons . Loss of EMG amplitude due to the overlap of motor unit action potentials ( amplitude cancellation ) , however , may distort the spectrum of the rectified EMG and thereby its correlation with the neural drive . In this study , we investigated the impact of amplitude cancelation on this correlation using analytical derivations and a computational model of motor neuron activity , force , and the EMG signal . First , we demonstrated analytically that an ideal rectified EMG signal without amplitude cancellation ( EMGnc ) is superior to the actual rectified EMG signal as estimator of the neural drive to muscle . This observation was confirmed by the simulations , as the average coefficient of determination ( r2 ) between the neural drive in the 1–30 Hz band and EMGnc ( 0 . 59±0 . 08 ) was matched by the correlation between the re
Auxin is necessary for the inhibition of root growth induced by aluminium ( Al ) stress , however the molecular mechanism controlling this is largely unknown . Here , we report that YUCCA ( YUC ) , which encodes flavin monooxygenase-like proteins , regulates local auxin biosynthesis in the root apex transition zone ( TZ ) in response to Al stress . Al stress up-regulates YUC3/5/7/8/9 in the root-apex TZ , which we show results in the accumulation of auxin in the root-apex TZ and root-growth inhibition during the Al stress response . These Al-dependent changes in the regulation of YUCs in the root-apex TZ and YUC-regulated root growth inhibition are dependent on ethylene signalling . Increasing or disruption of ethylene signalling caused either enhanced or reduced up-regulation , respectively , of YUCs in root-apex TZ in response to Al stress . In addition , ethylene enhanced root growth inhibition under Al stress was strongly alleviated in yuc mutants or by co-treatment with yucasin , 
Natural killer ( NK ) cell responses in primates are regulated in part through interactions between two highly polymorphic molecules , the killer-cell immunoglobulin-like receptors ( KIRs ) on NK cells and their major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I ligands on target cells . We previously reported that the binding of a common MHC class I molecule in the rhesus macaque , Mamu-A1*002 , to the inhibitory receptor Mamu-KIR3DL05 is stabilized by certain simian immunodeficiency virus ( SIV ) peptides , but not by others . Here we investigated the functional implications of these interactions by testing SIV peptides bound by Mamu-A1*002 for the ability to modulate Mamu-KIR3DL05+ NK cell responses . Twenty-eight of 75 SIV peptides bound by Mamu-A1*002 suppressed the cytolytic activity of primary Mamu-KIR3DL05+ NK cells , including three immunodominant CD8+ T cell epitopes previously shown to stabilize Mamu-A1*002 tetramer binding to Mamu-KIR3DL05 . Substitutions at C-terminal positi
Bacterial pathogens must sense , respond and adapt to a myriad of dynamic microenvironmental stressors to survive . Adaptation is key for colonization and long-term ability to endure fluctuations in nutrient availability and inflammatory processes . We hypothesize that strains adapted to survive nutrient deprivation are more adept for colonization and establishment of chronic infection . In this study , we detected microevolution in response to transient nutrient limitation through mutation of icc . The mutation results in decreased 3' , 5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate phosphodiesterase activity in nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae ( NTHI ) . In a preclinical model of NTHI-induced otitis media ( OM ) , we observed a significant decrease in the recovery of effusion from ears infected with the icc mutant strain . Clinically , resolution of OM coincides with the clearance of middle ear fluid . In contrast to this clinical paradigm , we observed that the icc mutant strain formed signifi
The control over iron homeostasis is critical in host-pathogen-interaction . Iron plays not only multiple roles for bacterial growth and pathogenicity , but also for modulation of innate immune responses . Hepcidin is a key regulator of host iron metabolism triggering degradation of the iron exporter ferroportin . Although iron overload in humans is known to increase susceptibility to Burkholderia pseudomallei , it is unclear how the pathogen competes with the host for the metal during infection . This study aimed to investigate whether B . pseudomallei , the causative agent of melioidosis , modulates iron balance and how regulation of host cell iron content affects intracellular bacterial proliferation . Upon infection of primary macrophages with B . pseudomallei , expression of ferroportin was downregulated resulting in higher iron availability within macrophages . Exogenous modification of iron export function by hepcidin or iron supplementation by ferric ammonium citrate led to inc
Proteins frequently accomplish their biological function by collective atomic motions . Yet the identification of collective motions related to a specific protein function from , e . g . , a molecular dynamics trajectory is often non-trivial . Here , we propose a novel technique termed “functional mode analysis” that aims to detect the collective motion that is directly related to a particular protein function . Based on an ensemble of structures , together with an arbitrary “functional quantity” that quantifies the functional state of the protein , the technique detects the collective motion that is maximally correlated to the functional quantity . The functional quantity could , e . g . , correspond to a geometric , electrostatic , or chemical observable , or any other variable that is relevant to the function of the protein . In addition , the motion that displays the largest likelihood to induce a substantial change in the functional quantity is estimated from the given protein ens
Nuclear genes of euglenids and marine diplonemids harbor atypical , nonconventional introns which are not observed in the genomes of other eukaryotes . Nonconventional introns do not have the conserved borders characteristic for spliceosomal introns or the sequence complementary to U1 snRNA at the 5' end . They form a stable secondary structure bringing together both exon/intron junctions , nevertheless , this conformation does not resemble the form of self-splicing or tRNA introns . In the genes studied so far , frequent nonconventional introns insertions at new positions have been observed , whereas conventional introns have been either found at the conserved positions , or simply lost . In this work , we examined the order of intron removal from Euglena gracilis transcripts of the tubA and gapC genes , which contain two types of introns: nonconventional and spliceosomal . The relative order of intron excision was compared for pairs of introns belonging to different types . Furthermo
Coxsackievirus B ( CVB ) is an enterovirus that most commonly causes a self-limited febrile illness in infants , but cases of severe infection can manifest in acute myocarditis . Chronic consequences of mild CVB infection are unknown , though there is an epidemiologic association between early subclinical infections and late heart failure , raising the possibility of subtle damage leading to late-onset dysfunction , or chronic ongoing injury due to inflammatory reactions during latent infection . Here we describe a mouse model of juvenile infection with a subclinical dose of coxsackievirus B3 ( CVB3 ) which showed no evident symptoms , either immediately following infection or in adult mice . However following physiological or pharmacologically-induced cardiac stress , juvenile-infected adult mice underwent cardiac hypertrophy and dilation indicative of progression to heart failure . Evaluation of the vasculature in the hearts of adult mice subjected to cardiac stress showed a compensa
The cytosolic pathogen Burkholderia pseudomallei and causative agent of melioidosis has been shown to regulate IL-1β and IL-18 production through NOD-like receptor NLRP3 and pyroptosis via NLRC4 . Downstream signalling pathways of those receptors and other cell death mechanisms induced during B . pseudomallei infection have not been addressed so far in detail . Furthermore , the role of B . pseudomallei factors in inflammasome activation is still ill defined . In the present study we show that caspase-1 processing and pyroptosis is exclusively dependent on NLRC4 , but not on NLRP3 in the early phase of macrophage infection , whereas at later time points caspase-1 activation and cell death is NLRC4- independent . In the early phase we identified an activation pathway involving caspases-9 , -7 and PARP downstream of NLRC4 and caspase-1 . Analyses of caspase-1/11-deficient infected macrophages revealed a strong induction of apoptosis , which is dependent on activation of apoptotic initiat
Pollen–stigma interactions are essential for pollen germination . The highly regulated process of pollen germination includes pollen adhesion , hydration , and germination on the stigma . However , the internal signaling of pollen that regulates pollen–stigma interactions is poorly understood . KINβγ is a plant-specific subunit of the SNF1-related protein kinase 1 complex which plays important roles in the regulation of plant development . Here , we showed that KINβγ was a cytoplasm- and nucleus-localized protein in the vegetative cells of pollen grains in Arabidopsis . The pollen of the Arabidopsis kinβγ mutant could not germinate on stigma , although it germinated normally in vitro . Further analysis revealed the hydration of kinβγ mutant pollen on the stigma was compromised . However , adding water to the stigma promoted the germination of the mutant pollen in vivo , suggesting that the compromised hydration of the mutant pollen led to its defective germination . In kinβγ mutant pol
RNase III–related enzymes play key roles in cleaving double-stranded RNA in many biological systems . Among the best-known are RNase III itself , involved in ribosomal RNA maturation and mRNA turnover in bacteria , and Drosha and Dicer , which play critical roles in the production of micro ( mi ) –RNAs and small interfering ( si ) –RNAs in eukaryotes . Although RNase III has important cellular functions in bacteria , its gene is generally not essential , with the remarkable exception of that of Bacillus subtilis . Here we show that the essential role of RNase III in this organism is to protect it from the expression of toxin genes borne by two prophages , Skin and SPβ , through antisense RNA . Thus , while a growing number of organisms that use RNase III or its homologs as part of a viral defense mechanism , B . subtilis requires RNase III for viral accommodation to the point where the presence of the enzyme is essential for cell survival . We identify txpA and yonT as the two toxin-en
The filarial nematode Brugia malayi is an etiological agent of Lymphatic Filariasis . The capability of B . malayi and other parasitic nematodes to modulate host biology is recognized but the mechanisms by which such manipulation occurs are obscure . An emerging paradigm is the release of parasite-derived extracellular vesicles ( EV ) containing bioactive proteins and small RNA species that allow secretion of parasite effector molecules and their potential trafficking to host tissues . We have previously described EV release from the infectious L3 stage B . malayi and here we profile vesicle release across all intra-mammalian life cycle stages ( microfilariae , L3 , L4 , adult male and female worms ) . Nanoparticle Tracking Analysis was used to quantify and size EVs revealing discrete vesicle populations and indicating a secretory process that is conserved across the life cycle . Brugia EVs are internalized by murine macrophages with no preference for life stage suggesting a uniform me
Scabies and impetigo are common , important and treatable skin conditions . Reports from several Pacific island countries show extremely high prevalence of these two conditions , but for many countries , including the Solomon Islands , there is a paucity of epidemiological data . Ten rural villages in the Western Province of the Solomon Islands were included in the study , chosen so that data collection could be integrated with an existing project investigating clinical and serological markers of yaws . All residents were eligible to participate , and 1908 people were enrolled . Participants were interviewed and examined by a paediatric registrar , who recorded relevant demographic information , and made a clinical diagnosis of scabies and/or impetigo , severity and distribution . The total unweighted prevalence of scabies was 19 . 2% ( 95% confidence interval [CI] 17 . 5–21 . 0 ) , and age and gender weighted prevalence 19 . 2% ( 95%CI 16 . 7–21 . 9 ) . The adult prevalence of scabies
Neurogenesis continues through the adult life of mice in the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus in the hippocampus , but its function remains unclear . Measuring cellular proliferation in the hippocampus of 719 outbred heterogeneous stock mice revealed a highly significant correlation with the proportions of CD8+ versus CD4+ T lymphocyte subsets . This correlation reflected shared genetic loci , with the exception of the H-2Ea locus that had a dominant influence on T cell subsets but no impact on neurogenesis . Analysis of knockouts and repopulation of TCRα-deficient mice by subsets of T cells confirmed the influence of T cells on adult neurogenesis , indicating that CD4+ T cells or subpopulations thereof mediate the effect . Our results reveal an organismal impact , broader than hitherto suspected , of the natural genetic variation that controls T cell development and homeostasis . 
Chagas disease is a major health problem in Latin America , and an emerging infectious disease in the US . Previously , we have screened the Trypanosoma cruzi sequence database by a computational/bioinformatics approach , and identified antigens that exhibited the characteristics of vaccine candidates . We investigated the protective efficacy of a multi-component DNA-prime/protein-boost vaccine ( TcVac2 ) constituted of the selected candidates and cytokine ( IL-12 and GM-CSF ) expression plasmids in a murine model . C57BL/6 mice were immunized with antigen-encoding plasmids plus cytokine adjuvants , followed by recombinant proteins; and two-weeks later , challenged with T . cruzi trypomastigotes . ELISA and flow cytometry were employed to measure humoral ( antibody isotypes ) and cellular ( lymphocyte proliferation , CD4+ and CD8+ T cell phenotype and cytokines ) responses . Myocardial pathology was evaluated by H&E and Masson's trichrome staining . TcVac2 induced a strong antigen-spec
Genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) have been fruitful in identifying disease susceptibility loci for common and complex diseases . A remaining question is whether we can quantify individual disease risk based on genotype data , in order to facilitate personalized prevention and treatment for complex diseases . Previous studies have typically failed to achieve satisfactory performance , primarily due to the use of only a limited number of confirmed susceptibility loci . Here we propose that sophisticated machine-learning approaches with a large ensemble of markers may improve the performance of disease risk assessment . We applied a Support Vector Machine ( SVM ) algorithm on a GWAS dataset generated on the Affymetrix genotyping platform for type 1 diabetes ( T1D ) and optimized a risk assessment model with hundreds of markers . We subsequently tested this model on an independent Illumina-genotyped dataset with imputed genotypes ( 1 , 008 cases and 1 , 000 controls ) , as well as 
Memory CD8+ T cells in the circulation rapidly infiltrate non-lymphoid tissues following infection and provide protective immunity in an antigen-specific manner . However , the subsequent fate of memory CD8+ T cells after entering non-lymphoid tissues such as the skin during a secondary infection is largely unknown . Furthermore , because expression of CD62L is often used to identify the central memory ( TCM ) CD8+ T cell subset , uncoupling the physical requirement for CD62L-mediated lymph node homing versus other functional attributes of TCM CD8+ T cells remains unresolved . Here , we show that in contrast to naïve CD8+ T cells , memory CD8+ T cells traffic into the skin independent of CD62L-mediated lymph node re-activation and provide robust protective immunity against Vaccinia virus ( VacV ) infection . TCM , but not effector memory ( TEM ) , CD8+ T cells differentiated into functional CD69+/CD103- tissue residents following viral clearance , which was also dependent on local reco
In neurons polarized trafficking of vesicle-bound membrane proteins gives rise to the distinct molecular composition and functional properties of axons and dendrites . Despite their central role in shaping neuronal form and function , surprisingly little is known about the molecular processes that mediate polarized targeting of neuronal proteins . Recently , the plus-end-directed motor Myosin Va was shown to play a critical role in targeting of transmembrane proteins to dendrites; however , the role of myosin motors in axonal targeting is unknown . Here we show that Myosin VI , a minus-end-directed motor , plays a vital role in the enrichment of proteins on the surface of axons . Engineering non-neuronal proteins to interact with Myosin VI causes them to become highly concentrated at the axonal surface in dissociated rat cortical neurons . Furthermore , disruption of either Myosin VI function or expression leads to aberrant dendritic localization of axonal proteins . Myosin VI mediates
Sex-determining mechanisms are diverse among animal lineages and can be broadly divided into two major categories: genetic and environmental . In contrast to genetic sex determination ( GSD ) , little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying environmental sex determination ( ESD ) . The Doublesex ( Dsx ) genes play an important role in controlling sexual dimorphism in genetic sex-determining organisms such as nematodes , insects , and vertebrates . Here we report the identification of two Dsx genes from Daphnia magna , a freshwater branchiopod crustacean that parthenogenetically produces males in response to environmental cues . One of these genes , designated DapmaDsx1 , is responsible for the male trait development when expressed during environmental sex determination . The domain organization of DapmaDsx1 was similar to that of Dsx from insects , which are thought to be the sister group of branchiopod crustaceans . Intriguingly , the molecular basis for sexually dimorphic 
A genital herpes vaccine is urgently needed to prevent pain and suffering , reduce the incidence of neonatal herpes , and decrease the risk of HIV acquisition and transmission that accompanies genital infection . We evaluated a trivalent HSV-2 subunit antigen vaccine administered with CpG and alum in rhesus macaques and guinea pigs . The vaccine contains glycoproteins C , D and E ( gC2 , gD2 , gE2 ) to block virus entry by gD2 and immune evasion by gC2 and gE2 . In rhesus macaques , the trivalent vaccine induced plasma and mucosa neutralizing antibodies , antibodies that block gC2 and gE2 immune evasion activities , and stimulated CD4 T cell responses . After intravaginal challenge , a self-limited vaginal infection of brief duration was detected by histopathology and immunohistochemistry in naïve , but not in trivalent immunized macaques . Vaccine efficacy was evaluated in female guinea pigs . Animals were mock immunized , or immunized with gD2 , the trivalent vaccine or the trivalent
Segmental duplications and other highly repetitive regions of genomes contribute significantly to cells’ regulatory programs . Advancements in next generation sequencing enabled genome-wide profiling of protein-DNA interactions by chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by high throughput sequencing ( ChIP-seq ) . However , interactions in highly repetitive regions of genomes have proven difficult to map since short reads of 50–100 base pairs ( bps ) from these regions map to multiple locations in reference genomes . Standard analytical methods discard such multi-mapping reads and the few that can accommodate them are prone to large false positive and negative rates . We developed Perm-seq , a prior-enhanced read allocation method for ChIP-seq experiments , that can allocate multi-mapping reads in highly repetitive regions of the genomes with high accuracy . We comprehensively evaluated Perm-seq , and found that our prior-enhanced approach significantly improves multi-read allocation ac
Schistosomiasis affects 218 million people worldwide , with most infections in Africa . Prevalence studies suggest that people with chronic schistosomiasis may have higher risk of HIV-1 acquisition and impaired ability to control HIV-1 replication once infected . We hypothesized that: ( 1 ) pre-existing schistosome infection may increase the odds of HIV-1 acquisition and that the effects may differ between men and women , and ( 2 ) individuals with active schistosome infection at the time of HIV-1 acquisition may have impaired immune control of HIV-1 , resulting in higher HIV-1 viral loads at HIV-1 seroconversion . We conducted a nested case-control study within a large population-based survey of HIV-1 transmission in Tanzania . A population of adults from seven villages was tested for HIV in 2007 , 2010 , and 2013 and dried blood spots were archived for future studies with participants’ consent . Approximately 40% of this population has Schistosoma mansoni infection , and 2% has S . h
Ribosomal DNA is one of the most variable regions in the human genome with respect to copy number . Despite the importance of rDNA for cellular function , we know virtually nothing about what governs its copy number , stability , and sequence in the mammalian genome due to challenges associated with mapping and analysis . We applied computational and droplet digital PCR approaches to measure rDNA copy number in normal and cancer states in human and mouse genomes . We find that copy number and sequence can change in cancer genomes . Counterintuitively , human cancer genomes show a loss of copies , accompanied by global copy number co-variation . The sequence can also be more variable in the cancer genome . Cancer genomes with lower copies have mutational evidence of mTOR hyperactivity . The PTEN phosphatase is a tumor suppressor that is critical for genome stability and a negative regulator of the mTOR kinase pathway . Surprisingly , but consistent with the human cancer genomes , hemato
Mechanistic determinants of bacterial growth , death , and spread within mammalian hosts cannot be fully resolved studying a single bacterial population . They are also currently poorly understood . Here , we report on the application of sophisticated experimental approaches to map spatiotemporal population dynamics of bacteria during an infection . We analyzed heterogeneous traits of simultaneous infections with tagged Salmonella enterica populations ( wild-type isogenic tagged strains [WITS] ) in wild-type and gene-targeted mice . WITS are phenotypically identical but can be distinguished and enumerated by quantitative PCR , making it possible , using probabilistic models , to estimate bacterial death rate based on the disappearance of strains through time . This multidisciplinary approach allowed us to establish the timing , relative occurrence , and immune control of key infection parameters in a true host–pathogen combination . Our analyses support a model in which shortly after i
It is shown that existing processing schemes of 3D motion perception such as interocular velocity difference , changing disparity over time , as well as joint encoding of motion and disparity , do not offer a general solution to the inverse optics problem of local binocular 3D motion . Instead we suggest that local velocity constraints in combination with binocular disparity and other depth cues provide a more flexible framework for the solution of the inverse problem . In the context of the aperture problem we derive predictions from two plausible default strategies: ( 1 ) the vector normal prefers slow motion in 3D whereas ( 2 ) the cyclopean average is based on slow motion in 2D . Predicting perceived motion directions for ambiguous line motion provides an opportunity to distinguish between these strategies of 3D motion processing . Our theoretical results suggest that velocity constraints and disparity from feature tracking are needed to solve the inverse problem of 3D motion perce
The O-acetylation of polysaccharides is a common modification used by pathogenic organisms to protect against external forces . Pseudomonas aeruginosa secretes the anionic , O-acetylated exopolysaccharide alginate during chronic infection in the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients to form the major constituent of a protective biofilm matrix . Four proteins have been implicated in the O-acetylation of alginate , AlgIJF and AlgX . To probe the biological function of AlgJ , we determined its structure to 1 . 83 Å resolution . AlgJ is a SGNH hydrolase-like protein , which while structurally similar to the N-terminal domain of AlgX exhibits a distinctly different electrostatic surface potential . Consistent with other SGNH hydrolases , we identified a conserved catalytic triad composed of D190 , H192 and S288 and demonstrated that AlgJ exhibits acetylesterase activity in vitro . Residues in the AlgJ signature motifs were found to form an extensive network of interactions that are critical for
Candida albicans is among the most common causes of human fungal infections and is an important source of mortality . C . albicans is able to diminish its detection by innate immune cells through masking of β ( 1 , 3 ) -glucan in the inner cell wall with an outer layer of heavily glycosylated mannoproteins ( mannan ) . However , mutations or drugs that disrupt the cell wall can lead to exposure of β ( 1 , 3 ) -glucan ( unmasking ) and enhanced detection by innate immune cells through receptors like Dectin-1 , the C-type signaling lectin . Previously , our lab showed that the pathway for synthesizing the phospholipid phosphatidylserine ( PS ) plays a role in β ( 1 , 3 ) -glucan masking . The homozygous PS synthase knockout mutant , cho1Δ/Δ , exhibits increased exposure of β ( 1 , 3 ) -glucan . Several Mitogen Activated Protein Kinase ( MAPK ) pathways and their upstream Rho-type small GTPases are important for regulating cell wall biogenesis and remodeling . In the cho1Δ/Δ mutant , both
Alzheimer's disease ( AD ) and related dementias are a major public health challenge and present a therapeutic imperative for which we need additional insight into molecular pathogenesis . We performed a genome-wide association study and analysis of known genetic risk loci for AD dementia using neuropathologic data from 4 , 914 brain autopsies . Neuropathologic data were used to define clinico-pathologic AD dementia or controls , assess core neuropathologic features of AD ( neuritic plaques , NPs; neurofibrillary tangles , NFTs ) , and evaluate commonly co-morbid neuropathologic changes: cerebral amyloid angiopathy ( CAA ) , Lewy body disease ( LBD ) , hippocampal sclerosis of the elderly ( HS ) , and vascular brain injury ( VBI ) . Genome-wide significance was observed for clinico-pathologic AD dementia , NPs , NFTs , CAA , and LBD with a number of variants in and around the apolipoprotein E gene ( APOE ) . GalNAc transferase 7 ( GALNT7 ) , ATP-Binding Cassette , Sub-Family G ( WHITE 
After decades of using urea as denaturant , the kinetic role of this molecule in the unfolding process is still undefined: does urea actively induce protein unfolding or passively stabilize the unfolded state ? By analyzing a set of 30 proteins ( representative of all native folds ) through extensive molecular dynamics simulations in denaturant ( using a range of force-fields ) , we derived robust rules for urea unfolding that are valid at the proteome level . Irrespective of the protein fold , presence or absence of disulphide bridges , and secondary structure composition , urea concentrates in the first solvation shell of quasi-native proteins , but with a density lower than that of the fully unfolded state . The presence of urea does not alter the spontaneous vibration pattern of proteins . In fact , it reduces the magnitude of such vibrations , leading to a counterintuitive slow down of the atomic-motions that opposes unfolding . Urea stickiness and slow diffusion is , however , cr
A systematic literature review was conducted to describe the epidemiology of dengue disease in Colombia . Searches of published literature in epidemiological studies of dengue disease encompassing the terms “dengue” , “epidemiology , ” and “Colombia” were conducted . Studies in English or Spanish published between 1 January 2000 and 23 February 2012 were included . The searches identified 225 relevant citations , 30 of which fulfilled the inclusion criteria defined in the review protocol . The epidemiology of dengue disease in Colombia was characterized by a stable “baseline” annual number of dengue fever cases , with major outbreaks in 2001–2003 and 2010 . The geographical spread of dengue disease cases showed a steady increase , with most of the country affected by the 2010 outbreak . The majority of dengue disease recorded during the review period was among those <15 years of age . Gaps identified in epidemiological knowledge regarding dengue disease in Colombia may provide several 
Tegumentary leishmaniasis ( TL ) is a disease of skin and/or mucosal tissues caused by Leishmania parasites . TL patients may concurrently carry other pathogens , which may influence the clinical outcome of TL . This review focuses on the frequency of TL coinfections in human populations , interactions between Leishmania and other pathogens in animal models and human subjects , and implications of TL coinfections for clinical practice . For the purpose of this review , TL is defined as all forms of cutaneous ( localised , disseminated , or diffuse ) and mucocutaneous leishmaniasis . Human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) coinfection , superinfection with skin bacteria , and skin manifestations of visceral leishmaniasis are not included . We searched MEDLINE and other databases and included 73 records: 21 experimental studies in animals and 52 studies about human subjects ( mainly cross-sectional and case studies ) . Several reports describe the frequency of Trypanosoma cruzi coinfection 
Genetic variation in the major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) affects CD4∶CD8 lineage commitment and MHC expression . However , the contribution of specific genes in this gene-dense region has not yet been resolved . Nor has it been established whether the same genes regulate MHC expression and T cell selection . Here , we assessed the impact of natural genetic variation on MHC expression and CD4∶CD8 lineage commitment using two genetic models in the rat . First , we mapped Quantitative Trait Loci ( QTLs ) associated with variation in MHC class I and II protein expression and the CD4∶CD8 T cell ratio in outbred Heterogeneous Stock rats . We identified 10 QTLs across the genome and found that QTLs for the individual traits colocalized within a region spanning the MHC . To identify the genes underlying these overlapping QTLs , we generated a large panel of MHC-recombinant congenic strains , and refined the QTLs to two adjacent intervals of ∼0 . 25 Mb in the MHC-I and II regions , res
After the United States , Spain comes second in the list of countries receiving migrants from Latin America , and , therefore , it is the European country with the highest expected number of infected patients of Chagas disease . We have studied the National Health System’s Hospital Discharge Records Database ( CMBD ) in order to describe the disease evolution from 1997 to 2011 in Spain . We performed a retrospective descriptive study using CMBD information on hospitalizations including Chagas disease . Data was divided in two periods with similar length in time: 1997-2004 and 2005-2011 . Hospitalization rates were calculated and clinical characteristics were described . We used multivariable logistic regression to calculate adjusted odds-ratio ( aOR ) for the association between various conditions and being hospitalized with organ affectation . A total of 1729 hospitalization records were identified . Hospitalization rates for the two periods were 18 and 242 . 8/100000 population , res
Hundreds of genetic markers have shown associations with various complex diseases , yet the “missing heritability” remains alarmingly elusive . Combinatorial interactions may account for a substantial portion of this missing heritability , but their discoveries have been impeded by computational complexity and genetic heterogeneity . We present BlocBuster , a novel systems-level approach that efficiently constructs genome-wide , allele-specific networks that accurately segregate homogenous combinations of genetic factors , tests the associations of these combinations with the given phenotype , and rigorously validates the results using a series of unbiased validation methods . BlocBuster employs a correlation measure that is customized for single nucleotide polymorphisms and returns a multi-faceted collection of values that captures genetic heterogeneity . We applied BlocBuster to analyze psoriasis , discovering a combinatorial pattern with an odds ratio of 3 . 64 and Bonferroni-correc
Agenesis of the corpus callosum ( ACC ) , cerebellar hypoplasia ( CBLH ) , and polymicrogyria ( PMG ) are severe congenital brain malformations with largely undiscovered causes . We conducted a large-scale chromosomal copy number variation ( CNV ) discovery effort in 255 ACC , 220 CBLH , and 147 PMG patients , and 2 , 349 controls . Compared to controls , significantly more ACC , but unexpectedly not CBLH or PMG patients , had rare genic CNVs over one megabase ( p = 1 . 48×10−3; odds ratio [OR] = 3 . 19; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1 . 89–5 . 39 ) . Rare genic CNVs were those that impacted at least one gene in less than 1% of the combined population of patients and controls . Compared to controls , significantly more ACC but not CBLH or PMG patients had rare CNVs impacting over 20 genes ( p = 0 . 01; OR = 2 . 95; 95% CI = 1 . 69–5 . 18 ) . Independent qPCR confirmation showed that 9 . 4% of ACC patients had de novo CNVs . These , in comparison to inherited CNVs , preferentially over
Regeneration requires the precise integration of cues that initiate proliferation , direct differentiation , and ultimately re-pattern tissues to the proper size and scale . Yet how these processes are integrated with wounding responses remains relatively unknown . The freshwater planarian , Schmidtea mediterranea , is an ideal model to study the stereotyped proliferative and transcriptional responses to injury due to its high capacity for regeneration . Here , we characterize the effector of the Hippo signalling cascade , yorkie , during planarian regeneration and its role in restricting early injury responses . In yki ( RNAi ) regenerating animals , wound responses are hyper-activated such that both stem cell proliferation and the transcriptional wound response program are heighted and prolonged . Using this observation , we also uncovered novel wound-induced genes by RNAseq that were de-repressed in yki ( RNAi ) animals compared with controls . Additionally , we show that yki ( RNAi
Exosomes can transfer genetic materials between cells . Their roles in viral infections are beginning to be appreciated . Researches have shown that exosomes released from virus-infected cells contain a variety of viral and host cellular factors that are able to modulate recipient’s cellular response and result in productive infection of the recipient host . Here , we showed that EV71 infection resulted in upregulated exosome secretion and differential packaging of the viral genomic RNA and miR-146a into exosomes . We provided evidence showing that miR-146a was preferentially enriched in exosomes while the viral RNA was not in infected cells . Moreover , the exosomes contained replication-competent EV71 RNA in complex with miR-146a , Ago2 , and GW182 and could mediate EV71 transmission independent of virus-specific receptor . The exosomal viral RNA could be transferred to and replicate in a new target cell while the exosomal miR-146a suppressed type I interferon response in the target 
PTEN-induced kinase 1 ( PINK1 ) , which is required for mitochondrial homeostasis , is a gene product responsible for early-onset Parkinson's disease ( PD ) . Another early onset PD gene product , Parkin , has been suggested to function downstream of the PINK1 signalling pathway based on genetic studies in Drosophila . PINK1 is a serine/threonine kinase with a predicted mitochondrial target sequence and a probable transmembrane domain at the N-terminus , while Parkin is a RING-finger protein with ubiquitin-ligase ( E3 ) activity . However , how PINK1 and Parkin regulate mitochondrial activity is largely unknown . To explore the molecular mechanism underlying the interaction between PINK1 and Parkin , we biochemically purified PINK1-binding proteins from human cultured cells and screened the genes encoding these binding proteins using Drosophila PINK1 ( dPINK1 ) models to isolate a molecule ( s ) involved in the PINK1 pathology . Here we report that a PINK1-binding mitochondrial protein
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) , caused by infection with Mycobacterium ulcerans , is a chronic necrotizing human skin disease associated with the production of the cytotoxic macrolide exotoxin mycolactone . Despite extensive research , the type of immune responses elicited against this pathogen and the effector functions conferring protection against BU are not yet fully understood . While histopathological analyses of advanced BU lesions have demonstrated a mainly extracellular localization of the toxin producing acid fast bacilli , there is growing evidence for an early intra-macrophage growth phase of M . ulcerans . This has led us to investigate whether interferon-γ might play an important role in containing M . ulcerans infections . In an experimental Buruli ulcer mouse model we found that interferon-γ is indeed a critical regulator of early host immune defense against M . ulcerans infections . Interferon-γ knockout mice displayed a faster progression of the infection compared to wild-type 
Increased production of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) in mitochondria underlies major systemic diseases , and this clinical problem stimulates a great scientific interest in the mechanism of ROS generation . However , the mechanism of hypoxia-induced change in ROS production is not fully understood . To mathematically analyze this mechanism in details , taking into consideration all the possible redox states formed in the process of electron transport , even for respiratory complex III , a system of hundreds of differential equations must be constructed . Aimed to facilitate such tasks , we developed a new methodology of modeling , which resides in the automated construction of large sets of differential equations . The detailed modeling of electron transport in mitochondria allowed for the identification of two steady state modes of operation ( bistability ) of respiratory complex III at the same microenvironmental conditions . Various perturbations could induce the transition of re
The early embryo of Drosophila melanogaster provides a powerful model system to study the role of genes in pattern formation . The gap gene network constitutes the first zygotic regulatory tier in the hierarchy of the segmentation genes involved in specifying the position of body segments . Here , we use an integrative , systems-level approach to investigate the regulatory effect of the terminal gap gene huckebein ( hkb ) on gap gene expression . We present quantitative expression data for the Hkb protein , which enable us to include hkb in gap gene circuit models . Gap gene circuits are mathematical models of gene networks used as computational tools to extract regulatory information from spatial expression data . This is achieved by fitting the model to gap gene expression patterns , in order to obtain estimates for regulatory parameters which predict a specific network topology . We show how considering variability in the data combined with analysis of parameter determinability sign
Brucellosis is an important zoonotic disease causing huge economic losses worldwide . Currently no effective immunotherapy for Brucellosis or any biomarker to monitor the efficacy of therapy is available . Treatment is ineffective and animals remain carrier lifelong . S19 and RB51 are live attenuated vaccine strains of Brucella abortus . However , S19 induces only antibody , ineffective for intracellular pathogen . RB51 induces cell mediated immunity ( CMI ) but it is Rifampicin resistant . Both organisms are secreted in milk and can infect humans and cause abortions in animals . Phage lysed bacteria ( lysates ) retain maximum immunogenicity as opposed to killing by heat or chemicals . We report here the successful immunotherapy of bovine Brucellosis by phage lysates of RB51 ( RL ) and S19 ( SL ) . The SL induced strong antibody response and RL stimulated CMI . In vitro restimulation of leukocytes from RL immunized cattle induced interferon gamma production . A single subcutaneous dose
The cyclin-dependent kinases ( CDKs ) that promote cell-cycle progression are targets for negative regulation by signals from damaged or unreplicated DNA , but also play active roles in response to DNA lesions . The requirement for activity in the face of DNA damage implies that there are mechanisms to insulate certain CDKs from checkpoint inhibition . It remains difficult , however , to assign precise functions to specific CDKs in protecting genomic integrity . In mammals , Cdk2 is active throughout S and G2 phases , but Cdk2 protein is dispensable for survival , owing to compensation by other CDKs . That plasticity obscured a requirement for Cdk2 activity in proliferation of human cells , which we uncovered by replacement of wild-type Cdk2 with a mutant version sensitized to inhibition by bulky adenine analogs . Here we show that transient , selective inhibition of analog-sensitive ( AS ) Cdk2 after exposure to ionizing radiation ( IR ) enhances cell-killing . In extracts supplemente
Turning genetic discoveries identified in genome-wide association ( GWA ) studies into biological mechanisms is an important challenge in human genetics . Many GWA signals map outside exons , suggesting that the associated variants may lie within regulatory regions . We applied the formaldehyde-assisted isolation of regulatory elements ( FAIRE ) method in a megakaryocytic and an erythroblastoid cell line to map active regulatory elements at known loci associated with hematological quantitative traits , coronary artery disease , and myocardial infarction . We showed that the two cell types exhibit distinct patterns of open chromatin and that cell-specific open chromatin can guide the finding of functional variants . We identified an open chromatin region at chromosome 7q22 . 3 in megakaryocytes but not erythroblasts , which harbors the common non-coding sequence variant rs342293 known to be associated with platelet volume and function . Resequencing of this open chromatin region in 643 
The mechanism ( s ) of action of most commonly used pharmacological blockers of voltage-gated ion channels are well understood; however , this knowledge is rarely considered when interpreting experimental data . Effects of blockade are often assumed to be equivalent , regardless of the mechanism of the blocker involved . Using computer simulations , we demonstrate that this assumption may not always be correct . We simulate the blockade of a persistent sodium current ( INaP ) , proposed to underlie rhythm generation in pre-Bötzinger complex ( pre-BötC ) respiratory neurons , via two distinct pharmacological mechanisms: ( 1 ) pore obstruction mediated by tetrodotoxin and ( 2 ) altered inactivation dynamics mediated by riluzole . The reported effects of experimental application of tetrodotoxin and riluzole in respiratory circuits are diverse and seemingly contradictory and have led to considerable debate within the field as to the specific role of INaP in respiratory circuits . The resul
MicroRNAs play key roles in tumor metastasis . Here , we describe the regulation and function of miR-218 in gastric cancer ( GC ) metastasis . miR-218 expression is decreased along with the expression of one of its host genes , Slit3 in metastatic GC . However , Robo1 , one of several Slit receptors , is negatively regulated by miR-218 , thus establishing a negative feedback loop . Decreased miR-218 levels eliminate Robo1 repression , which activates the Slit-Robo1 pathway through the interaction between Robo1 and Slit2 , thus triggering tumor metastasis . The restoration of miR-218 suppresses Robo1 expression and inhibits tumor cell invasion and metastasis in vitro and in vivo . Taken together , our results describe a Slit-miR-218-Robo1 regulatory circuit whose disruption may contribute to GC metastasis . Targeting miR-218 may provide a strategy for blocking tumor metastasis . 
Despite the well-documented effects of plasma lipid lowering regimes halting atherosclerosis lesion development and reducing morbidity and mortality of coronary artery disease and stroke , the transcriptional response in the atherosclerotic lesion mediating these beneficial effects has not yet been carefully investigated . We performed transcriptional profiling at 10-week intervals in atherosclerosis-prone mice with human-like hypercholesterolemia and a genetic switch to lower plasma lipoproteins ( Ldlr−/−Apo100/100 Mttpflox/flox Mx1-Cre ) . Atherosclerotic lesions progressed slowly at first , then expanded rapidly , and plateaued after advanced lesions formed . Analysis of lesion expression profiles indicated that accumulation of lipid-poor macrophages reached a point that led to the rapid expansion phase with accelerated foam-cell formation and inflammation , an interpretation supported by lesion histology . Genetic lowering of plasma cholesterol ( e . g . , lipoproteins ) at this po
The cell envelope of Gram-negative bacteria is a formidable barrier that is difficult for antimicrobial drugs to penetrate . Thus , the list of treatments effective against these organisms is small and with the rise of new resistance mechanisms is shrinking rapidly . New therapies to treat Gram-negative bacterial infections are therefore sorely needed . This goal will be greatly aided by a detailed mechanistic understanding of envelope assembly . Although excellent progress in the identification of essential envelope biogenesis systems has been made in recent years , many aspects of the process remain to be elucidated . We therefore developed a simple , quantitative , and high-throughput assay for mutants with envelope biogenesis defects and used it to screen an ordered single-gene deletion library of Escherichia coli . The screen was robust and correctly identified numerous mutants known to be involved in envelope assembly . Importantly , the screen also implicated 102 genes of unknow
Dynamical processes in biology are studied using an ever-increasing number of techniques , each of which brings out unique features of the system . One of the current challenges is to develop systematic approaches for fusing heterogeneous datasets into an integrated view of multivariable dynamics . We demonstrate that heterogeneous data fusion can be successfully implemented within a semi-supervised learning framework that exploits the intrinsic geometry of high-dimensional datasets . We illustrate our approach using a dataset from studies of pattern formation in Drosophila . The result is a continuous trajectory that reveals the joint dynamics of gene expression , subcellular protein localization , protein phosphorylation , and tissue morphogenesis . Our approach can be readily adapted to other imaging modalities and forms a starting point for further steps of data analytics and modeling of biological dynamics . 
Snake venom hemorrhagic metalloproteinases ( SVMPs ) of the PI , PII and PIII classes were compared in terms of tissue localization and their ability to hydrolyze basement membrane components in vivo , as well as by a proteomics analysis of exudates collected in tissue injected with these enzymes . Immunohistochemical analyses of co-localization of these SVMPs with type IV collagen revealed that PII and PIII enzymes co-localized with type IV collagen in capillaries , arterioles and post-capillary venules to a higher extent than PI SVMP , which showed a more widespread distribution in the tissue . The patterns of hydrolysis by these three SVMPs of laminin , type VI collagen and nidogen in vivo greatly differ , whereas the three enzymes showed a similar pattern of degradation of type IV collagen , supporting the concept that hydrolysis of this component is critical for the destabilization of microvessel structure leading to hemorrhage . Proteomic analysis of wound exudate revealed simila
The homeotic genes in Drosophila melanogaster are aligned on the chromosome in the order of the body segments that they affect . The genes affecting the more posterior segments repress the more anterior genes . This posterior dominance rule must be qualified in the case of abdominal-A ( abd-A ) repression by Abdominal-B ( Abd-B ) . Animals lacking Abd-B show ectopic expression of abd-A in the epidermis of the eighth abdominal segment , but not in the central nervous system . Repression in these neuronal cells is accomplished by a 92 kb noncoding RNA . This “iab-8 RNA” produces a micro RNA to repress abd-A , but also has a second , redundant repression mechanism that acts only “in cis . ” Transcriptional interference with the abd-A promoter is the most likely mechanism . 
Focal seizures are episodes of pathological brain activity that appear to arise from a localised area of the brain . The onset patterns of focal seizure activity have been studied intensively , and they have largely been distinguished into two types—low amplitude fast oscillations ( LAF ) , or high amplitude spikes ( HAS ) . Here we explore whether these two patterns arise from fundamentally different mechanisms . Here , we use a previously established computational model of neocortical tissue , and validate it as an adequate model using clinical recordings of focal seizures . We then reproduce the two onset patterns in their most defining properties and investigate the possible mechanisms underlying the different focal seizure onset patterns in the model . We show that the two patterns are associated with different mechanisms at the spatial scale of a single ECoG electrode . The LAF onset is initiated by independent patches of localised activity , which slowly invade the surrounding t
In contrast to animals and lower plant species , sperm cells of flowering plants are non-motile and are transported to the female gametes via the pollen tube , i . e . the male gametophyte . Upon arrival at the female gametophyte two sperm cells are discharged into the receptive synergid cell to execute double fertilization . The first players involved in inter-gametophyte signaling to attract pollen tubes and to arrest their growth have been recently identified . In contrast the physiological mechanisms leading to pollen tube burst and thus sperm discharge remained elusive . Here , we describe the role of polymorphic defensin-like cysteine-rich proteins ZmES1-4 ( Zea mays embryo sac ) from maize , leading to pollen tube growth arrest , burst , and explosive sperm release . ZmES1-4 genes are exclusively expressed in the cells of the female gametophyte . ZmES4-GFP fusion proteins accumulate in vesicles at the secretory zone of mature synergid cells and are released during the fertilizat
Oncolytic viruses aim to specifically kill tumor cells . A major challenge is the effective targeting of disseminated tumors in vivo . We retargeted herpes simplex virus ( HSV ) tropism to HER-2 oncoprotein p185 , overexpressed in ovary and breast cancers . The HER-2-retargeted R-LM249 exclusively infects and kills tumor cells expressing high levels of human HER-2 . Here , we assessed the efficacy of systemically i . p . delivered R-LM249 against disseminated tumors in mouse models that recapitulate tumor spread to the peritoneum in women . The human ovarian carcinoma SK-OV-3 cells implanted intraperitoneally ( i . p . ) in immunodeficient Rag2−/−;Il2rg−/− mice gave rise to a progressive peritoneal carcinomatosis which mimics the fatal condition in advanced human patients . I . p . administration of R-LM249 strongly inhibited carcinomatosis , resulting in 60% of mice free from peritoneal diffusion , and 95% reduction in the total weight of neoplastic nodules . Intraperitoneal metastase
Duplication of centrosomes once per cell cycle is essential for bipolar spindle formation and genome maintenance and is controlled in part by cyclin-dependent kinases ( Cdks ) . Our study identifies Sfi1 , a conserved component of centrosomes , as the first Cdk substrate required to restrict centrosome duplication to once per cell cycle . We found that reducing Cdk1 phosphorylation by changing Sfi1 phosphorylation sites to nonphosphorylatable residues leads to defects in separation of duplicated spindle pole bodies ( SPBs , yeast centrosomes ) and to inappropriate SPB reduplication during mitosis . These cells also display defects in bipolar spindle assembly , chromosome segregation , and growth . Our findings lead to a model whereby phosphoregulation of Sfi1 by Cdk1 has the dual function of promoting SPB separation for spindle formation and preventing premature SPB duplication . In addition , we provide evidence that the protein phosphatase Cdc14 has the converse role of activating li
The precise role of viral protein R ( Vpr ) , an HIV-1-encoded protein , during HIV-1 infection and its contribution to the development of AIDS remain unclear . Previous reports have shown that Vpr has the ability to cause G2 cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in HIV-1-infected cells in vitro . In addition , vpr is highly conserved in transmitted/founder HIV-1s and in all primate lentiviruses , which are evolutionarily related to HIV-1 . Although these findings suggest an important role of Vpr in HIV-1 pathogenesis , its direct evidence in vivo has not been shown . Here , by using a human hematopoietic stem cell-transplanted humanized mouse model , we demonstrated that Vpr causes G2 cell cycle arrest and apoptosis predominantly in proliferating CCR5+ CD4+ T cells , which mainly consist of regulatory CD4+ T cells ( Tregs ) , resulting in Treg depletion and enhanced virus production during acute infection . The Vpr-dependent enhancement of virus replication and Treg depletion is observed in
Vivax malaria was successfully eliminated in the Republic of Korea ( South Korea ) in the late 1970s , but it was found to have re-emerged from 1993 . In order to control malaria and evaluate the effectiveness of malaria controls , it is important to develop a spatiotemporal understanding of the genetic structure of the parasite population . Here , we estimated the population structure and temporal dynamics of the transmission of Plasmodium vivax in South Korea by analyzing microsatellite DNA markers of the parasite . We analyzed 14 microsatellite DNA loci of the P . vivax genome from 163 South Korean isolates collected from 1994 to 2008 . Allelic data were used to analyze linkage disequilibrium ( LD ) , genetic differentiation and population structure , in order to make a detailed estimate of temporal change in the parasite population . The LD analysis showed a gradual decrease in LD levels , while the levels of genetic differentiation between successive years and analysis of the popu
Enhancement of transcription by a splicing-competent intron is an evolutionarily conserved feature among eukaryotes . The molecular mechanism underlying the phenomenon , however , is not entirely clear . Here we show that the intron is an important regulator of promoter directionality . Employing strand-specific transcription run-on ( TRO ) analysis , we show that the transcription of mRNA is favored over the upstream anti-sense transcripts ( uaRNA ) initiating from the promoter in the presence of an intron . Mutation of either the 5′ or 3′ splice site resulted in the reversal of promoter directionality , thereby suggesting that it is not merely the 5′ splice site but the entire splicing-competent intron that regulates transcription directionality . ChIP analysis revealed the recruitment of termination factors near the promoter region in the presence of an intron . Removal of intron or the mutation of splice sites adversely affected the promoter localization of termination factors . We
A single nucleotide substitution in intron 3 of IGF2 in pigs abrogates a binding site for a repressor and leads to a 3-fold up-regulation of IGF2 in skeletal muscle . The mutation has major effects on muscle growth , size of the heart , and fat deposition . Here , we have identified the repressor and find that the protein , named ZBED6 , is previously unknown , specific for placental mammals , and derived from an exapted DNA transposon . Silencing of Zbed6 in mouse C2C12 myoblasts affected Igf2 expression , cell proliferation , wound healing , and myotube formation . Chromatin immunoprecipitation ( ChIP ) sequencing using C2C12 cells identified about 2 , 500 ZBED6 binding sites in the genome , and the deduced consensus motif gave a perfect match with the established binding site in Igf2 . Genes associated with ZBED6 binding sites showed a highly significant enrichment for certain Gene Ontology classifications , including development and transcriptional regulation . The phenotypic effec
Understanding of the RNA editing process has been broadened considerably by the next generation sequencing technology; however , several issues regarding this regulatory step remain unresolved – the strategies to accurately delineate the editome , the mechanism by which its profile is maintained , and its evolutionary and functional relevance . Here we report an accurate and quantitative profile of the RNA editome for rhesus macaque , a close relative of human . By combining genome and transcriptome sequencing of multiple tissues from the same animal , we identified 31 , 250 editing sites , of which 99 . 8% are A-to-G transitions . We verified 96 . 6% of editing sites in coding regions and 97 . 5% of randomly selected sites in non-coding regions , as well as the corresponding levels of editing by multiple independent means , demonstrating the feasibility of our experimental paradigm . Several lines of evidence supported the notion that the adenosine deamination is associated with the m
Several studies have reported optimal population decoding of sensory responses in two-alternative visual discrimination tasks . Such decoding involves integrating noisy neural responses into a more reliable representation of the likelihood that the stimuli under consideration evoked the observed responses . Importantly , an ideal observer must be able to evaluate likelihood with high precision and only consider the likelihood of the two relevant stimuli involved in the discrimination task . We report a new perceptual bias suggesting that observers read out the likelihood representation with remarkably low precision when discriminating grating spatial frequencies . Using spectrally filtered noise , we induced an asymmetry in the likelihood function of spatial frequency . This manipulation mainly affects the likelihood of spatial frequencies that are irrelevant to the task at hand . Nevertheless , we find a significant shift in perceived grating frequency , indicating that observers eval
Piwi-interacting RNAs ( piRNAs ) fulfill a critical , conserved role in defending the genome against foreign genetic elements . In many organisms , piRNAs appear to be derived from processing of a long , polycistronic RNA precursor . Here , we establish that each Caenorhabditis elegans piRNA represents a tiny , autonomous transcriptional unit . Remarkably , the minimal C . elegans piRNA cassette requires only a 21 nucleotide ( nt ) piRNA sequence and an ∼50 nt upstream motif with limited genomic context for expression . Combining computational analyses with a novel , in vivo transgenic system , we demonstrate that this upstream motif is necessary for independent expression of a germline-enriched , Piwi-dependent piRNA . We further show that a single nucleotide position within this motif directs differential germline enrichment . Accordingly , over 70% of C . elegans piRNAs are selectively expressed in male or female germline , and comparison of the genes they target suggests that these
Brucella species replicate within host cells in the form of endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) -derived vacuoles . The mechanisms by which the bacteria are sequestered into such vacuoles and obtain a continuous membrane supply for their replication remain to be elucidated . In the present study , we provided several lines of evidence that demonstrate the mechanism by which B . abortus acquires the ER-derived membrane . First , during Brucella infection , the IRE1 pathway , but not the PERK and ATF6 pathways , of the unfolded protein response ( UPR ) was activated in a time-dependent manner , and the COPII vesicle components Sar1 , Sec23 , and Sec24D were upregulated . Second , a marked accretion of ER-derived vacuoles was observed around replicating bacteria using fluorescent microscopy and electron microscopy . Third , we identified a novel host factor , Yip1A , for the activation of the IRE1 pathway in response to both tunicamycin treatment and infection with B . abortus . We found that Yi
Tombusviruses depend on subversions of multiple host factors and retarget cellular pathways to support viral replication . In this work , we demonstrate that tomato bushy stunt virus ( TBSV ) and the closely-related carnation Italian ringspot virus ( CIRV ) recruit the cellular Vps34 phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase ( PI3K ) into the large viral replication compartment . The kinase function of Vps34 is critical for TBSV replication , suggesting that PI ( 3 ) P phosphoinositide is utilized by TBSV for building of the replication compartment . We also observed increased expression of Vps34 and the higher abundance of PI ( 3 ) P in the presence of the tombusviral replication proteins , which likely leads to more efficient tombusvirus replication . Accordingly , overexpression of PI ( 3 ) P phosphatase in yeast or plants inhibited TBSV replication on the peroxisomal membranes and CIRV replication on the mitochondrial membranes . Moreover , the purified PI ( 3 ) P phosphatase reduced TBSV repl
Transmission of dengue virus ( DENV ) from humans to mosquitoes represents a critical component of dengue epidemiology . Examinations of this process have generally been hampered by a lack of methods that adequately represent natural acquisition of DENV by mosquitoes from humans . In this study , we assessed artificial and natural blood feeding methods based on rates of DENV infection and dissemination within mosquitoes for use in a field-based epidemiological cohort study in Iquitos , Peru . Our study was implemented , stepwise , between 2011 and 2015 . Participants who were 5 years and older with 5 or fewer days of fever were enrolled from ongoing clinic- and neighborhood-based studies on dengue in Iquitos . Wild type , laboratory-reared Aedes aegypti were fed directly on febrile individuals or on blood collected from participants that was either untreated or treated with EDTA . Mosquitoes were tested after approximately 14 days of extrinsic incubation for DENV infection and dissemin
Many chemotherapeutic drugs are differentially effective from one patient to the next . Understanding the causes of this variability is a critical step towards the development of personalized treatments and improvements to existing medications . Here , we investigate sensitivity to a group of anti-neoplastic drugs that target topoisomerase II using the model organism Caenorhabditis elegans . We show that wild strains of C . elegans vary in their sensitivity to these drugs , and we use an unbiased genetic approach to demonstrate that this natural variation is explained by a methionine-to-glutamine substitution in topoisomerase II ( TOP-2 ) . The presence of a non-polar methionine at this residue increases hydrophobic interactions between TOP-2 and its poison etoposide , as compared to a polar glutamine . We hypothesize that this stabilizing interaction results in increased genomic instability in strains that contain a methionine residue . The residue affected by this substitution is con
The genetics of lifespan determination is poorly understood . Most research has been done on short-lived animals and it is unclear if these insights can be transferred to long-lived mammals like humans . Some African mole-rats ( Bathyergidae ) have life expectancies that are multiple times higher than similar sized and phylogenetically closely related rodents . To gain new insights into genetic mechanisms determining mammalian lifespans , we obtained genomic and transcriptomic data from 17 rodent species and scanned eleven evolutionary branches associated with the evolution of enhanced longevity for positively selected genes ( PSGs ) . Indicating relevance for aging , the set of 250 identified PSGs showed in liver of long-lived naked mole-rats and short-lived rats an expression pattern that fits the antagonistic pleiotropy theory of aging . Moreover , we found the PSGs to be enriched for genes known to be related to aging . Among these enrichments were “cellular respiration” and “metal
Among the strategies targeting vector control , the exploitation of the endosymbiont Wolbachia to produce sterile males and/or invasive females with reduced vector competence seems to be promising . A new Aedes albopictus transinfection ( ARwP-M ) was generated by introducing wMel Wolbachia in the ARwP line which had been established previously by replacing wAlbA and wAlbB Wolbachia with the wPip strain . Various infection and fitness parameters were studied by comparing ARwP-M , ARwP and wild-type ( SANG population ) Ae . albopictus sharing the same genetic background . Moreover , the vector competence of ARwP-M related to chikungunya , dengue and zika viruses was evaluated in comparison with ARwP . ARwP-M showed a 100% rate of maternal inheritance of wMel and wPip Wolbachia . Survival , female fecundity and egg fertility did not show to differ between the three Ae . albopictus lines . Crosses between ARwP-M males and SANG females were fully unfertile regardless of male age while egg 
Many biological responses to intra- and extracellular stimuli are regulated through complex networks of transient protein interactions where a globular domain in one protein recognizes a linear peptide from another , creating a relatively small contact interface . These peptide stretches are often found in unstructured regions of proteins , and contain a consensus motif complementary to the interaction surface displayed by their binding partners . While most current methods for the de novo discovery of such motifs exploit their tendency to occur in disordered regions , our work here focuses on another observation: upon binding to their partner domain , motifs adopt a well-defined structure . Indeed , through the analysis of all peptide-mediated interactions of known high-resolution three-dimensional ( 3D ) structure , we found that the structure of the peptide may be as characteristic as the consensus motif , and help identify target peptides even though they do not match the establish
Environmental enteropathy ( EE ) is associated with growth failure , micronutrient malabsorption and impaired responses to oral vaccines . We set out to define cellular mechanisms of impaired barrier function in EE and explore protective mechanisms . We studied 49 adults with environmental enteropathy in Lusaka , Zambia using confocal laser endomicroscopy ( CLE ) ; histology , immunohistochemistry and mRNA sequencing of small intestinal biopsies; and correlated these with plasma lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) and a zinc uptake test . CLE images ( median 134 for each study ) showed virtually ubiquitous small intestinal damage . Epithelial defects , imaged by histology and claudin 4 immunostaining , were predominantly seen at the tips of villi and corresponded with leakage imaged in vivo by CLE . In multivariate analysis , circulating log-transformed LPS was correlated with cell shedding events ( β = 0 . 83; P = 0 . 035 ) and with serum glucagon-like peptide-2 ( β = -0 . 13; P = 0 . 007 ) . 
Diverse animal and plant viruses block the re-infection of host cells by the same or highly similar viruses through superinfection exclusion ( SIE ) , a widely observed , yet poorly understood phenomenon . Here we demonstrate that SIE of turnip crinkle virus ( TCV ) is exclusively determined by p28 , one of the two replication proteins encoded by this virus . p28 expressed from a TCV replicon exerts strong SIE to a different TCV replicon . Transiently expressed p28 , delivered simultaneously with , or ahead of , a TCV replicon , largely recapitulates this repressive activity . Interestingly , p28-mediated SIE is dramatically enhanced by C-terminally fused epitope tags or fluorescent proteins , but weakened by N-terminal modifications , and it inversely correlates with the ability of p28 to complement the replication of a p28-defective TCV replicon . Strikingly , p28 in SIE-positive cells forms large , mobile punctate inclusions that trans-aggregate a non-coalescing , SIE-defective , ye
Immunization of mice with the Trypanosoma cruzi trans-sialidase ( TS ) gene using plasmid DNA , adenoviral vector , and CpG-adjuvanted protein delivery has proven highly immunogenic and provides protection against acute lethal challenge . However , long-term protection induced by TS DNA vaccines has not been reported . The goal of the present work was to test whether the co-administration of a plasmid encoding IL-15 ( pIL-15 ) could improve the duration of protection achieved through genetic vaccination with plasmid encoding TS ( pTS ) alone . We immunized BALB/c mice with pTS in the presence or absence of pIL-15 and studied immune responses [with TS-specific IFN-γ ELISPOT , serum IgG ELISAs , intracellular cytokine staining ( IFN-γ , TNF-α , and IL-2 ) , tetramer staining , and CFSE dilution assays] and protection against lethal systemic challenge at 1 to 6 months post vaccination . Mice receiving pTS alone developed robust TS-specific IFN-γ responses and survived a lethal challenge g
The Polo-like kinase homolog in Trypanosoma brucei , TbPLK , plays essential roles in basal body segregation , flagellum attachment and cytokinesis . The level of TbPLK protein is tightly controlled , but the underlying mechanism remains elusive . Here , we report a Cullin-RING ubiquitin ligase composed of Cullin4 , the DNA damage-binding protein 1 homolog TbDDB1 and a WD40-repeat protein WDR1 that controls TbPLK abundance in the basal body and the bilobe . WDR1 , through its C-terminal domain , interacts with the PEST motif in TbPLK and , through its N-terminal WD40 motif , binds to TbDDB1 . Depletion of WDR1 inhibits bilobe duplication and basal body segregation , disrupts the assembly of the new flagellum attachment zone filament and detaches the new flagellum . Consistent with its role in TbPLK degradation , depletion of WDR1 causes excessive accumulation of TbPLK in the basal body and the bilobe , leading to continuous phosphorylation of TbCentrin2 in the bilobe at late cell cycle
DExD/H box RNA helicases , such as the RIG-I-like receptors ( RLR ) , are important components of the innate immune system . Here we demonstrate a pivotal and sex-specific role for the heterosomal isoforms of the DEAD box RNA helicase DDX3 in the immune system . Mice lacking DDX3X during hematopoiesis showed an altered leukocyte composition in bone marrow and spleen and a striking inability to combat infection with Listeria monocytogenes . Alterations in innate immune responses resulted from decreased effector cell availability and function as well as a sex-dependent impairment of cytokine synthesis . Thus , our data provide further in vivo evidence for an essential contribution of a non-RLR DExD/H RNA helicase to innate immunity and suggest it may contribute to sex-related differences in resistance to microbes and resilience to inflammatory disease . 
A biophysical model of receptor potential generation in the male moth olfactory receptor neuron is presented . It takes into account all pre-effector processes—the translocation of pheromone molecules from air to sensillum lymph , their deactivation and interaction with the receptors , and the G-protein and effector enzyme activation—and focuses on the main post-effector processes . These processes involve the production and degradation of second messengers ( IP3 and DAG ) , the opening and closing of a series of ionic channels ( IP3-gated Ca2+ channel , DAG-gated cationic channel , Ca2+-gated Cl− channel , and Ca2+- and voltage-gated K+ channel ) , and Ca2+ extrusion mechanisms . The whole network is regulated by modulators ( protein kinase C and Ca2+-calmodulin ) that exert feedback inhibition on the effector and channels . The evolution in time of these linked chemical species and currents and the resulting membrane potentials in response to single pulse stimulation of various inten
Cellular stresses activate the tumor suppressor p53 protein leading to selective binding to DNA response elements ( REs ) and gene transactivation from a large pool of potential p53 REs ( p53REs ) . To elucidate how p53RE sequences and local chromatin context interact to affect p53 binding and gene transactivation , we mapped genome-wide binding localizations of p53 and H3K4me3 in untreated and doxorubicin ( DXR ) -treated human lymphoblastoid cells . We examined the relationships among p53 occupancy , gene expression , H3K4me3 , chromatin accessibility ( DNase 1 hypersensitivity , DHS ) , ENCODE chromatin states , p53RE sequence , and evolutionary conservation . We observed that the inducible expression of p53-regulated genes was associated with the steady-state chromatin status of the cell . Most highly inducible p53-regulated genes were suppressed at baseline and marked by repressive histone modifications or displayed CTCF binding . Comparison of p53RE sequences residing in differen
Synthetic biology aims to design de novo biological systems and reengineer existing ones . These efforts have mostly focused on transcriptional circuits , with reengineering of signaling circuits hampered by limited understanding of their systems dynamics and experimental challenges . Bacterial two-component signaling systems offer a rich diversity of sensory systems that are built around a core phosphotransfer reaction between histidine kinases and their output response regulator proteins , and thus are a good target for reengineering through synthetic biology . Here , we explore the signal-response relationship arising from a specific motif found in two-component signaling . In this motif , a single histidine kinase ( HK ) phosphotransfers reversibly to two separate output response regulator ( RR ) proteins . We show that , under the experimentally observed parameters from bacteria and yeast , this motif not only allows rapid signal termination , whereby one of the RRs acts as a phos
From bacteria to humans , individual cells within isogenic populations can show significant variation in stress tolerance , but the nature of this heterogeneity is not clear . To investigate this , we used single-cell RNA sequencing to quantify transcript heterogeneity in single Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells treated with and without salt stress to explore population variation and identify cellular covariates that influence the stress-responsive transcriptome . Leveraging the extensive knowledge of yeast transcriptional regulation , we uncovered significant regulatory variation in individual yeast cells , both before and after stress . We also discovered that a subset of cells appears to decouple expression of ribosomal protein genes from the environmental stress response in a manner partly correlated with the cell cycle but unrelated to the yeast ultradian metabolic cycle . Live-cell imaging of cells expressing pairs of fluorescent regulators , including the transcription factor Msn2 
African trypanosomiasis is caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma brucei , transmitted between mammals by the bite of a tsetse . It has been recently shown that parasites accumulate in large numbers in various organs and tissues , including the mouse testis . Whether parasites are protected from the immune system in the male reproductive organ or can be transmitted through sexual route remains unknown . Here we show that parasites can be detected by fine needle aspiration cytology of the male reproductive system in mice , and histopathological analysis revealed that T . brucei accumulates in the stroma of the epididymis , epididymal adipose tissue and fibrous tunics of the testis . No parasites were found in the lumen of intact epididymal ducts or seminiferous tubules of the testis , indicating that the large majority of the parasites are not located in immune-privileged sites . In fact , these parasites are associated with marked inflammatory cell infiltration , parasite degener
For most organisms , chemosensation is critical for survival and is mediated by large families of chemoreceptor proteins , whose expression must be tuned appropriately to changes in the chemical environment . We asked whether expression of chemoreceptor genes that are clustered in the genome would be regulated independently; whether expression of certain chemoreceptor genes would be especially sensitive to environmental changes; whether groups of chemoreceptor genes undergo coordinated rexpression; and how plastic the expression of chemoreceptor genes is with regard to sex , development , reproductive state , and social context . To answer these questions we used Drosophila melanogaster , because its chemosensory systems are well characterized and both the genotype and environment can be controlled precisely . Using customized cDNA microarrays , we showed that chemoreceptor genes that are clustered in the genome undergo independent transcriptional regulation at different developmental 
Studies of human trisomies indicate a remarkable relationship between abnormal meiotic recombination and subsequent nondisjunction at maternal meiosis I or II . Specifically , failure to recombine or recombination events located either too near to or too far from the centromere have been linked to the origin of human trisomies . It should be possible to identify these abnormal crossover configurations by using immunofluorescence methodology to directly examine the meiotic recombination process in the human female . Accordingly , we initiated studies of crossover-associated proteins ( e . g . , MLH1 ) in human fetal oocytes to analyze their number and distribution on nondisjunction-prone human chromosomes and , more generally , to characterize genome-wide levels of recombination in the human female . Our analyses indicate that the number of MLH1 foci is lower than predicted from genetic linkage analysis , but its localization pattern conforms to that expected for a crossover-associated 
Blood-feeding arthropods—like mosquitoes , sand flies , and ticks—transmit many diseases that impose serious public health and economic burdens . When a blood-feeding arthropod bites a mammal , it injects saliva containing immunogenic compounds that facilitate feeding . Evidence from Leishmania , Plasmodium and arboviral infections suggests that the immune responses elicited by pre-exposure to arthropod saliva can alter disease progression if the host later becomes infected . Such pre-sensitisation of host immunity has been reported to both exacerbate and limit infection symptoms , depending on the system in question , with potential implications for recovery . To explore if and how immune pre-sensitisation alters the effects of vector control , we develop a general model of vector-borne disease . We show that the abundance of pre-sensitised infected hosts should increase when control efforts moderately increase vector mortality rates . If immune pre-sensitisation leads to more rapid c
Leishmaniasis is an important disease that affects 12 million people in 88 countries , with 2 million new cases every year . Leishmania amazonensis is an important agent in Brazil , leading to clinical forms varying from localized ( LCL ) to diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis ( DCL ) . One interesting issue rarely analyzed is how host immune response affects Leishmania phenotype and virulence . Aiming to study the effect of host immune system on Leishmania proteins we compared proteomes of amastigotes isolated from BALB/c and BALB/c nude mice . The athymic nude mice may resemble patients with diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis , considered T-cell hyposensitive or anergic to Leishmania´s antigens . This work is the first to compare modifications in amastigotes’ proteomes driven by host immune response . Among the 44 differentially expressed spots , there were proteins related to oxidative/nitrosative stress and proteases . Some correspond to known Leishmania virulence factors such as OPB and 
AID ( Activation Induced Deaminase ) deaminates cytosines in DNA to initiate immunoglobulin gene diversification and to reprogram CpG methylation in early development . AID is potentially highly mutagenic , and it causes genomic instability evident as translocations in B cell malignancies . Here we show that AID is cell cycle regulated . By high content screening microscopy , we demonstrate that AID undergoes nuclear degradation more slowly in G1 phase than in S or G2-M phase , and that mutations that affect regulatory phosphorylation or catalytic activity can alter AID stability and abundance . We directly test the role of cell cycle regulation by fusing AID to tags that destabilize nuclear protein outside of G1 or S-G2/M phases . We show that enforced nuclear localization of AID in G1 phase accelerates somatic hypermutation and class switch recombination , and is well-tolerated; while nuclear AID compromises viability in S-G2/M phase cells . We identify AID derivatives that accelerat
Microbial metabolism of plant polysaccharides is an important part of environmental carbon cycling , human nutrition , and industrial processes based on cellulosic bioconversion . Here we demonstrate a broadly applicable method to analyze how microbes catabolize plant polysaccharides that integrates carbohydrate-active enzyme ( CAZyme ) assays , RNA sequencing ( RNA-seq ) , and anaerobic growth screening . We apply this method to study how the bacterium Clostridium phytofermentans ferments plant biomass components including glucans , mannans , xylans , galactans , pectins , and arabinans . These polysaccharides are fermented with variable efficiencies , and diauxies prioritize metabolism of preferred substrates . Strand-specific RNA-seq reveals how this bacterium responds to polysaccharides by up-regulating specific groups of CAZymes , transporters , and enzymes to metabolize the constituent sugars . Fifty-six up-regulated CAZymes were purified , and their activities show most polysacc
1974–2005 studies across Sierra Leone showed onchocerciasis endemicity in 12 of 14 health districts ( HDs ) and baseline studies 2005–2008 showed lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) endemicity in all 14 HDs . Three integrated annual mass drug administration ( MDA ) were conducted in the 12 co-endemic districts 2008–2010 with good geographic , programme and drug coverage . Midterm assessment was conducted 2011 to determine impact of these MDAs on LF in these districts . The mf prevalence and intensity in the 12 districts were determined using the thick blood film method and results compared with baseline data from 2007–2008 . Overall mf prevalence fell from 2 . 6% ( 95% CI: 2 . 3%–3 . 0% ) to 0 . 3% ( 95% CI: 0 . 19%–0 . 47% ) , a decrease of 88 . 5% ( p = 0 . 000 ) ; prevalence was 0 . 0% ( 100 . 0% decrease ) in four districts: Bo , Moyamba , Kenema and Kono ( p = 0 . 001 , 0 . 025 , 0 . 085 and 0 . 000 respectively ) ; and seven districts had reductions in mf prevalence of between 70 . 0% an
High-throughput sequencing based techniques , such as 16S rRNA gene profiling , have the potential to elucidate the complex inner workings of natural microbial communities - be they from the world's oceans or the human gut . A key step in exploring such data is the identification of dependencies between members of these communities , which is commonly achieved by correlation analysis . However , it has been known since the days of Karl Pearson that the analysis of the type of data generated by such techniques ( referred to as compositional data ) can produce unreliable results since the observed data take the form of relative fractions of genes or species , rather than their absolute abundances . Using simulated and real data from the Human Microbiome Project , we show that such compositional effects can be widespread and severe: in some real data sets many of the correlations among taxa can be artifactual , and true correlations may even appear with opposite sign . Additionally , we s
The abundance of lysozyme on mucosal surfaces suggests that successful colonizers must be able to evade its antimicrobial effects . Lysozyme has a muramidase activity that hydrolyzes bacterial peptidoglycan and a non-muramidase activity attributable to its function as a cationic antimicrobial peptide . Two enzymes ( PgdA , a N-acetylglucosamine deacetylase , and Adr , an O-acetyl transferase ) that modify different sites on the peptidoglycan of Streptococcus pneumoniae have been implicated in its resistance to lysozyme in vitro . Here we show that the antimicrobial effect of human lysozyme is due to its muramidase activity and that both peptidoglycan modifications are required for full resistance by pneumococci . To examine the contribution of lysozyme and peptidoglycan modifications during colonization of the upper respiratory tract , competition experiments were performed with wild-type and pgdAadr mutant pneumococci in lysozyme M-sufficient ( LysM+/+ ) and -deficient ( LysM−/− ) mic
Dengue is the most important arthropod borne viral disease worldwide in terms of morbidity and mortality and is caused by any of the four serotypes of dengue virus ( DENV-1 to 4 ) . Brazil is responsible for approximately 80% of dengue cases in the Americas , and since the introduction of dengue in 1986 , a total of 5 , 944 , 270 cases have been reported including 21 , 596 dengue hemorrhagic fever and 874 fatal cases . DENV can infect many cell types and cause diverse clinical and pathological effects . The goal of the study was to investigate the usefulness of NS1 capture tests as an alternative tool to detect DENV in tissue specimens from previously confirmed dengue fatal cases ( n = 23 ) that occurred in 2002 in Brazil . A total of 74 tissue specimens were available: liver ( n = 23 ) , lung ( n = 14 ) , kidney ( n = 04 ) , brain ( n = 10 ) , heart ( n = 02 ) , skin ( n = 01 ) , spleen ( n = 15 ) , thymus ( n = 03 ) and lymph nodes ( n = 02 ) . We evaluated three tests for NS1 antige
Multiple Myeloma ( MM ) is a plasma cell malignancy with significantly greater incidence and mortality rates among African Americans ( AA ) compared to Caucasians ( CA ) . The overall goal of this study is to elucidate differences in molecular alterations in MM as a function of self-reported race and genetic ancestry . Our study utilized somatic whole exome , RNA-sequencing , and correlated clinical data from 718 MM patients from the Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation CoMMpass study Interim Analysis 9 . Somatic mutational analyses based upon self-reported race corrected for ancestry revealed significant differences in mutation frequency between groups . Of interest , BCL7A , BRWD3 , and AUTS2 demonstrate significantly higher mutation frequencies among AA cases . These genes are all involved in translocations in B-cell malignancies . Moreover , we detected a significant difference in mutation frequency of TP53 and IRF4 with frequencies higher among CA cases . Our study provides ration
The vast majority of mutations in the exome of cancer cells are passengers , which do not affect the reproductive rate of the cell . Passengers can provide important information about the evolutionary history of an individual cancer , and serve as a molecular clock . Passengers can also become targets for immunotherapy or confer resistance to treatment . We study the stochastic expansion of a population of cancer cells describing the growth of primary tumors or metastatic lesions . We first analyze the process by looking forward in time and calculate the fixation probabilities and frequencies of successive passenger mutations ordered by their time of appearance . We compute the likelihood of specific evolutionary trees , thereby informing the phylogenetic reconstruction of cancer evolution in individual patients . Next , we derive results looking backward in time: for a given subclonal mutation we estimate the number of cancer cells that were present at the time when that mutation aros
Polyglutamine ( polyQ ) expansion in exon1 ( XN1 ) of the huntingtin protein is linked to Huntington's disease . When the number of glutamines exceeds a threshold of approximately 36–40 repeats , XN1 can readily form amyloid aggregates similar to those associated with disease . Many experiments suggest that misfolding of monomeric XN1 plays an important role in the length-dependent aggregation . Elucidating the misfolding of a XN1 monomer can help determine the molecular mechanism of XN1 aggregation and potentially help develop strategies to inhibit XN1 aggregation . The flanking sequences surrounding the polyQ region can play a critical role in determining the structural rearrangement and aggregation mechanism of XN1 . Few experiments have studied XN1 in its entirety , with all flanking regions . To obtain structural insights into the misfolding of XN1 toward amyloid aggregation , we perform molecular dynamics simulations on monomeric XN1 with full flanking regions , a variant missing
CRISPR ( Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats ) loci , together with cas ( CRISPR–associated ) genes , form the CRISPR/Cas adaptive immune system , a primary defense strategy that eubacteria and archaea mobilize against foreign nucleic acids , including phages and conjugative plasmids . Short spacer sequences separated by the repeats are derived from foreign DNA and direct interference to future infections . The availability of hundreds of shotgun metagenomic datasets from the Human Microbiome Project ( HMP ) enables us to explore the distribution and diversity of known CRISPRs in human-associated microbial communities and to discover new CRISPRs . We propose a targeted assembly strategy to reconstruct CRISPR arrays , which whole-metagenome assemblies fail to identify . For each known CRISPR type ( identified from reference genomes ) , we use its direct repeat consensus sequence to recruit reads from each HMP dataset and then assemble the recruited reads into CRISP
Most organisms have an endogenous circadian clock that is synchronized to environmental signals such as light and temperature . Although circadian rhythms have been described in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans at the behavioral level , these rhythms appear to be relatively non-robust . Moreover , in contrast to other animal models , no circadian transcriptional rhythms have been identified . Thus , whether this organism contains a bona fide circadian clock remains an open question . Here we use genome-wide expression profiling experiments to identify light- and temperature-entrained oscillating transcripts in C . elegans . These transcripts exhibit rhythmic expression with temperature-compensated 24-h periods . In addition , their expression is sustained under constant conditions , suggesting that they are under circadian regulation . Light and temperature cycles strongly drive gene expression and appear to entrain largely nonoverlapping gene sets . We show that mutations in a cycl
The Saccharomyces cerevisae RAD3 gene is the homolog of human XPD , an essential gene encoding a DNA helicase of the TFIIH complex involved in both nucleotide excision repair ( NER ) and transcription . Some mutant alleles of RAD3 ( rad3-101 and rad3-102 ) have partial defects in DNA repair and a strong hyper-recombination ( hyper-Rec ) phenotype . Previous studies showed that the hyper-Rec phenotype associated with rad3-101 and rad3-102 can be explained as a consequence of persistent single-stranded DNA gaps that are converted to recombinogenic double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) by replication . The systems previously used to characterize the hyper-Rec phenotype of rad3 strains do not detect the reciprocal products of mitotic recombination . We have further characterized these events using a system in which the reciprocal products of mitotic recombination are recovered . Both rad3-101 and rad3-102 elevate the frequency of reciprocal crossovers about 100-fold . Mapping of these events shows
During persistent infection , optimal expression of bacterial factors is required to match the ever-changing host environment . The gastric pathogen Helicobacter pylori has a large set of simple sequence repeats ( SSR ) , which constitute contingency loci . Through a slipped strand mispairing mechanism , the SSRs generate heterogeneous populations that facilitate adaptation . Here , we present a model that explains , in molecular terms , how an intergenically located T-tract , via slipped strand mispairing , operates with a rheostat-like function , to fine-tune activity of the promoter that drives expression of the sialic acid binding adhesin , SabA . Using T-tract variants , in an isogenic strain background , we show that the length of the T-tract generates multiphasic output from the sabA promoter . Consequently , this alters the H . pylori binding to sialyl-Lewis x receptors on gastric mucosa . Fragment length analysis of post-infection isolated clones shows that the T-tract length 
High-risk human papillomavirus ( HPV ) must evade innate immune surveillance to establish persistent infections and to amplify viral genomes upon differentiation . Members of the JAK-STAT family are important regulators of the innate immune response and HPV proteins downregulate expression of STAT-1 to allow for stable maintenance of viral episomes . STAT-5 is another member of this pathway that modulates the inflammatory response and plays an important role in controlling cell cycle progression in response to cytokines and growth factors . Our studies show that HPV E7 activates STAT-5 phosphorylation without altering total protein levels . Inhibition of STAT-5 phosphorylation by the drug pimozide abolishes viral genome amplification and late gene expression in differentiating keratinocytes . In contrast , treatment of undifferentiated cells that stably maintain episomes has no effect on viral replication . Knockdown studies show that the STAT-5β isoform is mainly responsible for this 
Salmonella enterica serotype Typhi can colonize and persist in the biliary tract of infected individuals , resulting in a state of asymptomatic chronic carriage . Chronic carriers may act as persistent reservoirs of infection within a community and may introduce infection to susceptible individuals and new communities . Little is known about the interaction between the host and pathogen in the biliary tract of chronic carriers , and there is currently no reliable diagnostic assay to identify asymptomatic S . Typhi carriage . To study host-pathogen interactions in the biliary tract during S . Typhi carriage , we applied an immunoscreening technique called in vivo-induced antigen technology ( IVIAT ) , to identify potential biomarkers unique to carriers . IVIAT identifies humorally immunogenic bacterial antigens expressed uniquely in the in vivo environment , and we hypothesized that S . Typhi surviving in the biliary tract of humans may express a distinct antigenic profile . Thirteen S 
In order to study the role played by cellular RNA pools produced by homologous genomic loci in defining the transcriptional state of a silenced gene , we tested the effect of non-functional alleles of the white gene in the presence of a functional copy of white , silenced by heterochromatin . We found that non-functional alleles of white , unable to produce a coding transcript , could reactivate in trans the expression of a wild type copy of the same gene silenced by heterochromatin . This new epigenetic phenomenon of transcriptional trans-reactivation is heritable , relies on the presence of homologous RNA’s and is affected by mutations in genes involved in post-transcriptional gene silencing . Our data suggest a general new unexpected level of gene expression control mediated by homologous RNA molecules in the context of heterochromatic genes . 
Hematophagous mosquitos and ticks avoid host hemostatic system through expression of enzyme inhibitors targeting proteolytic reactions of the coagulation and complement cascades . While most inhibitors characterized to date were found in the salivary glands , relatively few others have been identified in the midgut . Among those , Boophilin is a 2-Kunitz multifunctional inhibitor targeting thrombin , elastase , and kallikrein . However , the kinetics of Boophilin interaction with these enzymes , how it modulates platelet function , and whether it inhibits thrombosis in vivo have not been determined . Boophilin was expressed in HEK293 cells and purified to homogeneity . Using amidolytic assays and surface plasmon resonance experiments , we have demonstrated that Boophilin behaves as a classical , non-competitive inhibitor of thrombin with respect to small chromogenic substrates by a mechanism dependent on both exosite-1 and catalytic site . Inhibition is accompanied by blockade of plate
The mucosa of the intestinal tract represents a finely tuned system where tissue structure strongly influences , and is turn influenced by , its function as both an absorptive surface and a defensive barrier . Mucosal architecture and histology plays a key role in the diagnosis , characterization and pathophysiology of a host of gastrointestinal diseases . Inflammation is a significant factor in the pathogenesis in many gastrointestinal diseases , and is perhaps the most clinically significant control factor governing the maintenance of the mucosal architecture by morphogenic pathways . We propose that appropriate characterization of the role of inflammation as a controller of enteric mucosal tissue patterning requires understanding the underlying cellular and molecular dynamics that determine the epithelial crypt-villus architecture across a range of conditions from health to disease . Towards this end we have developed the Spatially Explicit General-purpose Model of Enteric Tissue ( 
Traditional vector control approaches such as source reduction and insecticide spraying have limited effect on reducing Aedes aegypti population . The endosymbiont Wolbachia is pointed as a promising tool to mitigate arbovirus transmission and has been deployed worldwide . Models predict a rapid increase on the frequency of Wolbachia-positive Ae . aegypti mosquitoes in local settings , supported by cytoplasmic incompatibility ( CI ) and high maternal transmission rate associated with the wMelBr strain . Wolbachia wMelBr strain was released for 20 consecutive weeks after receiving >87% approval of householders of the isolated community of Tubiacanga , Rio de Janeiro . wMelBr frequency plateued~40% during weeks 7–19 , peaked 65% but dropped as releases stopped . A high ( 97 . 56% ) maternal transmission was observed . Doubling releases and deploying mosquitoes with large wing length and low laboratory mortality produced no detectable effects on invasion trend . By investigating the lab c
Poxviruses employ sophisticated , but incompletely understood , signaling pathways that engage cellular defense mechanisms and simultaneously ensure viral factors are modulated properly . For example , the vaccinia B1 protein kinase plays a vital role in inactivating the cellular antiviral factor BAF , and likely orchestrates other pathways as well . In this study , we utilized experimental evolution of a B1 deletion virus to perform an unbiased search for suppressor mutations and identify novel pathways involving B1 . After several passages of the ΔB1 virus we observed a robust increase in viral titer of the adapted virus . Interestingly , our characterization of the adapted viruses reveals that mutations correlating with a loss of function of the vaccinia B12 pseudokinase provide a striking fitness enhancement to this virus . In support of predictions that reductive evolution is a driver of poxvirus adaptation , this is clear experimental evidence that gene loss can be of significant
Secondary amphiphilicity is inherent to the secondary structural elements of proteins . By forming energetically favorable contacts with each other these amphiphilic building blocks give rise to the formation of a tertiary structure . Small proteins and peptides , on the other hand , are usually too short to form multiple structural elements and cannot stabilize them internally . Therefore , these molecules are often found to be structurally ambiguous up to the point of a large degree of intrinsic disorder in solution . Consequently , their conformational preference is particularly susceptible to environmental conditions such as pH , salts , or presence of interfaces . In this study we use molecular dynamics simulations to analyze the conformational behavior of two synthetic peptides , LKKLLKLLKKLLKL ( LK ) and EAALAEALAEALAE ( EALA ) , with built-in secondary amphiphilicity upon forming an alpha-helix . We use these model peptides to systematically study their aggregation and the infl
Human herpesvirus 6A ( HHV-6A ) and 6B ( HHV-6B ) are ubiquitous betaherpesviruses that infects humans within the first years of life and establishes latency in various cell types . Both viruses can integrate their genomes into telomeres of host chromosomes in latently infected cells . The molecular mechanism of viral integration remains elusive . Intriguingly , HHV-6A , HHV-6B and several other herpesviruses harbor arrays of telomeric repeats ( TMR ) identical to human telomere sequences at the ends of their genomes . The HHV-6A and HHV-6B genomes harbor two TMR arrays , the perfect TMR ( pTMR ) and the imperfect TMR ( impTMR ) . To determine if the TMR are involved in virus integration , we deleted both pTMR and impTMR in the HHV-6A genome . Upon reconstitution , the TMR mutant virus replicated comparable to wild type ( wt ) virus , indicating that the TMR are not essential for HHV-6A replication . To assess the integration properties of the recombinant viruses , we established an in
In contrast to most enveloped viruses , poxviruses produce infectious particles that do not acquire their internal lipid membrane by budding through cellular compartments . Instead , poxvirus immature particles are generated from atypical crescent-shaped precursors whose architecture and composition remain contentious . Here we describe the 2 . 6 Å crystal structure of vaccinia virus D13 , a key structural component of the outer scaffold of viral crescents . D13 folds into two jellyrolls decorated by a head domain of novel fold . It assembles into trimers that are homologous to the double-barrel capsid proteins of adenovirus and lipid-containing icosahedral viruses . We show that , when tethered onto artificial membranes , D13 forms a honeycomb lattice and assembly products structurally similar to the viral crescents and immature particles . The architecture of the D13 honeycomb lattice and the lipid-remodeling abilities of D13 support a model of assembly that exhibits similarities wit
Observations gained from model organisms are essential , yet it remains unclear to which degree they are applicable to distant relatives . For example , in the dicotyledon Arabidopsis thaliana ( Arabidopsis ) , auxin biosynthesis via indole-3-pyruvic acid ( IPA ) is essential for root development and requires redundant TRYPTOPHAN AMINOTRANSFERASE OF ARABIDOPSIS 1 ( TAA1 ) and TAA1-RELATED ( TAR ) genes . A promoter T-DNA insertion in the monocotyledon Brachypodium distachyon ( Brachypodium ) TAR2-LIKE gene ( BdTAR2L ) severely down-regulates expression , suggesting reduced tryptophan aminotransferase activity in this mutant , which thus represents a hypomorphic Bdtar2l allele ( Bdtar2lhypo ) . Counterintuitive however , Bdtar2lhypo mutants display dramatically elongated seminal roots because of enhanced cell elongation . This phenotype is also observed in another , stronger Bdtar2l allele and can be mimicked by treating wild type with L-kynerunine , a specific TAA1/TAR inhibitor . Surp
Understanding why genes evolve at different rates is fundamental to evolutionary thinking . In species of the budding yeast , the rate at which genes diverge in expression correlates with the organization of their promoter nucleosomes: genes lacking a nucleosome-free region ( denoted OPN for “Occupied Proximal Nucleosomes” ) vary widely between the species , while the expression of those containing NFR ( denoted DPN for “Depleted Proximal Nucleosomes” ) remains largely conserved . To examine if early evolutionary dynamics contributes to this difference in divergence , we artificially selected for high expression of GFP–fused proteins . Surprisingly , selection was equally successful for OPN and DPN genes , with ∼80% of genes in each group stably increasing in expression by a similar amount . Notably , the two groups adapted by distinct mechanisms: DPN–selected strains duplicated large genomic regions , while OPN–selected strains favored trans mutations not involving duplications . When
Activation of I-κB kinases ( IKKs ) and NF-κB by the human T lymphotropic virus type 1 ( HTLV-1 ) trans-activator/oncoprotein , Tax , is thought to promote cell proliferation and transformation . Paradoxically , expression of Tax in most cells leads to drastic up-regulation of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors , p21CIP1/WAF1 and p27KIP1 , which cause p53-/pRb-independent cellular senescence . Here we demonstrate that p21CIP1/WAF1-/p27KIP1-mediated senescence constitutes a checkpoint against IKK/NF-κB hyper-activation . Senescence induced by Tax in HeLa cells is attenuated by mutations in Tax that reduce IKK/NF-κB activation and prevented by blocking NF-κB using a degradation-resistant mutant of I-κBα despite constitutive IKK activation . Small hairpin RNA-mediated knockdown indicates that RelA induces this senescence program by acting upstream of the anaphase promoting complex and RelB to stabilize p27KIP1 protein and p21CIP1/WAF1 mRNA respectively . Finally , we show that down-regula
The frontal lobes subserve decision-making and executive control—that is , the selection and coordination of goal-directed behaviors . Current models of frontal executive function , however , do not explain human decision-making in everyday environments featuring uncertain , changing , and especially open-ended situations . Here , we propose a computational model of human executive function that clarifies this issue . Using behavioral experiments , we show that unlike others , the proposed model predicts human decisions and their variations across individuals in naturalistic situations . The model reveals that for driving action , the human frontal function monitors up to three/four concurrent behavioral strategies and infers online their ability to predict action outcomes: whenever one appears more reliable than unreliable , this strategy is chosen to guide the selection and learning of actions that maximize rewards . Otherwise , a new behavioral strategy is tentatively formed , partl
The field of medical systems biology aims to advance understanding of molecular mechanisms that drive disease progression and to translate this knowledge into therapies to effectively treat diseases . A challenging task is the investigation of long-term effects of a ( pharmacological ) treatment , to establish its applicability and to identify potential side effects . We present a new modeling approach , called Analysis of Dynamic Adaptations in Parameter Trajectories ( ADAPT ) , to analyze the long-term effects of a pharmacological intervention . A concept of time-dependent evolution of model parameters is introduced to study the dynamics of molecular adaptations . The progression of these adaptations is predicted by identifying necessary dynamic changes in the model parameters to describe the transition between experimental data obtained during different stages of the treatment . The trajectories provide insight in the affected underlying biological systems and identify the molecular
Why are sensory signals and motor command signals combined in the neurons of origin of the spinocerebellar pathways and why are the granule cells that receive this input thresholded with respect to their spike output ? In this paper , we synthesize a number of findings into a new hypothesis for how the spinocerebellar systems and the cerebellar cortex can interact to support coordination of our multi-segmented limbs and bodies . A central idea is that recombination of the signals available to the spinocerebellar neurons can be used to approximate a wide array of functions including the spatial and temporal dependencies between limb segments , i . e . information that is necessary in order to achieve coordination . We find that random recombination of sensory and motor signals is not a good strategy since , surprisingly , the number of granule cells severely limits the number of recombinations that can be represented within the cerebellum . Instead , we propose that the spinal circuitry
Application of genomics and Next Generation sequencing has led to the identification of new class of cellular functional molecules , namely , small RNAs . Of the several classes of ncRNAs ( non-coding RNA ) , microRNAs have been demonstrated to exert determinative influence on various cellular processes . It is becoming abundantly clear that host/vector/pathogen encoded microRNAs impact eventual pathogenesis . In this context , the participation of vector based microRNAs in disease transmission and pathogen development is being investigated intensively . A few studies have highlighted the role of vector encoded microRNAs in pathogen infection . We conducted this study to evaluate the role of host miRNAs upon CHIKV ( Chikungunya Virus ) infection in an important vector , Aedes albopictus . We identified 88 and 79 known miRNAs in uninfected and CHIKV infected Ae . albopictus Singh's cell line respectively . We further identified nine novel miRNAs in Ae . albopictus . Comparison of the tw
Cystic echinococcosis ( CE ) is a globally distributed parasitic infection of humans and livestock . The disease is of significant medical and economic importance in many developing countries , including Iran . However , the socioeconomic impact of the disease , in most endemic countries , is not fully understood . The purpose of the present study was to determine the monetary burden of CE in Iran . Epidemiological data , including prevalence and incidence of CE in humans and animals , were obtained from regional hospitals , the scientific literature , and official government reports . Economic data relating to human and animal disease , including cost of treatment , productivity losses , and livestock production losses were obtained from official national and international datasets . Monte Carlo simulation methods were used to represent uncertainty in input parameters . Mean number of surgical CE cases per year for 2000–2009 was estimated at 1 , 295 . The number of asymptomatic indivi
Mouse polyomavirus ( MPyV ) lytically infects mouse cells , transforms rat cells in culture , and is highly oncogenic in rodents . We have used deep sequencing to follow MPyV infection of mouse NIH3T6 cells at various times after infection and analyzed both the viral and cellular transcriptomes . Alignment of sequencing reads to the viral genome illustrated the transcriptional profile of the early-to-late switch with both early-strand and late-strand RNAs being transcribed at all time points . A number of novel insights into viral gene expression emerged from these studies , including the demonstration of widespread RNA editing of viral transcripts at late times in infection . By late times in infection , 359 host genes were seen to be significantly upregulated and 857 were downregulated . Gene ontology analysis indicated transcripts involved in translation , metabolism , RNA processing , DNA methylation , and protein turnover were upregulated while transcripts involved in extracellula
Each year in the past three decades has seen hundreds of thousands of runners register to run a major marathon . Of those who attempt to race over the marathon distance of 26 miles and 385 yards ( 42 . 195 kilometers ) , more than two-fifths experience severe and performance-limiting depletion of physiologic carbohydrate reserves ( a phenomenon known as ‘hitting the wall’ ) , and thousands drop out before reaching the finish lines ( approximately 1–2% of those who start ) . Analyses of endurance physiology have often either used coarse approximations to suggest that human glycogen reserves are insufficient to fuel a marathon ( making ‘hitting the wall’ seem inevitable ) , or implied that maximal glycogen loading is required in order to complete a marathon without ‘hitting the wall . ’ The present computational study demonstrates that the energetic constraints on endurance runners are more subtle , and depend on several physiologic variables including the muscle mass distribution , live
Most isolates of Toxoplasma from Europe and North America fall into one of three genetically distinct clonal lineages , the type I , II and III lineages . However , in South America these strains are rarely isolated and instead a great variety of other strains are found . T . gondii strains differ widely in a number of phenotypes in mice , such as virulence , persistence , oral infectivity , migratory capacity , induction of cytokine expression and modulation of host gene expression . The outcome of toxoplasmosis in patients is also variable and we hypothesize that , besides host and environmental factors , the genotype of the parasite strain plays a major role . The molecular basis for these differences in pathogenesis , especially in strains other than the clonal lineages , remains largely unexplored . Macrophages play an essential role in the early immune response against T . gondii and are also the cell type preferentially infected in vivo . To determine if non-canonical Toxoplasma
Recombination in enteroviruses provides an evolutionary mechanism for acquiring extensive regions of novel sequence , is suggested to have a role in genotype diversity and is known to have been key to the emergence of novel neuropathogenic variants of poliovirus . Despite the importance of this evolutionary mechanism , the recombination process remains relatively poorly understood . We investigated heterologous recombination using a novel reverse genetic approach that resulted in the isolation of intermediate chimeric intertypic polioviruses bearing genomes with extensive duplicated sequences at the recombination junction . Serial passage of viruses exhibiting such imprecise junctions yielded progeny with increased fitness which had lost the duplicated sequences . Mutations or inhibitors that changed polymerase fidelity or the coalescence of replication complexes markedly altered the yield of recombinants ( but did not influence non-replicative recombination ) indicating both that the 
Beiging of white adipose tissue ( WAT ) is a particularly appealing target for therapeutics in the treatment of metabolic diseases through norepinephrine ( NE ) -mediated signaling pathways . Although previous studies report NE clearance mechanisms via SLC6A2 on sympathetic neurons or proinflammatory macrophages in adipose tissues ( ATs ) , the low catecholamine clearance capacity of SLC6A2 may limit the cleaning efficiency . Here , we report that mouse organic cation transporter 3 ( Oct3; Slc22a3 ) is highly expressed in WAT and displays the greatest uptake rate of NE as a selective non-neural route of NE clearance in white adipocytes , which differs from other known routes such as adjacent neurons or macrophages . We further show that adipocytes express high levels of NE degradation enzymes Maoa , Maob , and Comt , providing the molecular basis on NE clearance by adipocytes together with its reuptake transporter Oct3 . Under NE administration , ablation of Oct3 induces higher body te
The heterochromatin-enriched HP1 proteins play a critical role in regulation of transcription . These proteins contain two related domains known as the chromo- and the chromoshadow-domain . The chromo-domain binds histone H3 tails methylated on lysine 9 . However , in vivo and in vitro experiments have shown that the affinity of HP1 proteins to native methylated chromatin is relatively poor and that the opening of chromatin occurring during DNA replication facilitates their binding to nucleosomes . These observations prompted us to investigate whether HP1 proteins have additional histone binding activities , envisioning also affinity for regions potentially occluded by the nucleosome structure . We find that the chromoshadow-domain interacts with histone H3 in a region located partially inside the nucleosomal barrel at the entry/exit point of the nucleosome . Interestingly , this region is also contacted by the catalytic subunits of the human SWI/SNF complex . In vitro , efficient SWI/
RNA molecules will tend to adopt a folded conformation through the pairing of bases on a single strand; the resulting so-called secondary structure is critical to the function of many types of RNA . The secondary structure of a particular substring of functional RNA may depend on its surrounding sequence . Yet , some RNAs such as microRNAs retain their specific structures during biogenesis , which involves extraction of the substructure from a larger structural context , while other functional RNAs may be composed of a fusion of independent substructures . Such observations raise the question of whether particular functional RNA substructures may be selected for invariance of secondary structure to their surrounding nucleotide context . We define the property of self containment to be the tendency for an RNA sequence to robustly adopt the same optimal secondary structure regardless of whether it exists in isolation or is a substring of a longer sequence of arbitrary nucleotide content 
Host cells use an intricate signaling system to respond to invasions by pathogenic microorganisms . Although several signaling components of disease resistance against necrotrophic fungal pathogens have been identified , our understanding for how molecular components and host processes contribute to plant disease susceptibility is rather sparse . Here , we identified four transcription factors ( TFs ) from Arabidopsis that limit pathogen spread . Arabidopsis mutants defective in any of these TFs displayed increased disease susceptibility to Botrytis cinerea and Plectosphaerella cucumerina , and a general activation of non-immune host processes that contribute to plant disease susceptibility . Transcriptome analyses revealed that the mutants share a common transcriptional signature of 77 up-regulated genes . We characterized several of the up-regulated genes that encode peptides with a secretion signal , which we named PROVIR ( for provirulence ) factors . Forward and reverse genetic an
Successful embryo implantation requires a receptive endometrium . Poor uterine receptivity can account for implantation failure in women who experience recurrent pregnancy loss or multiple rounds of unsuccessful in vitro fertilization cycles . Here , we demonstrate that the transcription factor Forkhead Box O1 ( FOXO1 ) is a critical regulator of endometrial receptivity in vivo . Uterine ablation of Foxo1 using the progesterone receptor Cre ( PgrCre ) mouse model resulted in infertility due to altered epithelial cell polarity and apoptosis , preventing the embryo from penetrating the luminal epithelium . Analysis of the uterine transcriptome after Foxo1 ablation identified alterations in gene expression for transcripts involved in the activation of cell invasion , molecular transport , apoptosis , β-catenin ( CTNNB1 ) signaling pathway , and an increase in PGR signaling . The increase of PGR signaling was due to PGR expression being retained in the uterine epithelium during the window 
Geographical mapping of dengue in resource-limited settings is crucial for targeting control interventions but is challenging due to the problem of zero-inflation because many cases are not reported . We developed a negative binomial generalised linear mixed effect model accounting for zero-inflation , spatial , and temporal random effects to investigate the spatial variation in monthly dengue cases in Bangladesh . The model was fitted to the district-level ( 64 districts ) monthly reported dengue cases aggregated over the period 2000 to 2009 and Bayesian inference was performed using the integrated nested Laplace approximation . We found that mean monthly temperature and its interaction with mean monthly diurnal temperature range , lagged by two months were significantly associated with dengue incidence . Mean monthly rainfall at two months lag was positively associated with dengue incidence . Densely populated districts and districts bordering India or Myanmar had higher incidence th
When introduced into a novel environment , mammals establish in it a preferred place marked by the highest number of visits and highest cumulative time spent in it . Examination of exploratory behavior in reference to this “home base” highlights important features of its organization . It might therefore be fruitful to search for other types of marked places in mouse exploratory behavior and examine their influence on overall behavior . Examination of path curvatures of mice exploring a large empty arena revealed the presence of circumscribed locales marked by the performance of tortuous paths full of twists and turns . We term these places knots , and the behavior performed in them—knot-scribbling . There is typically no more than one knot per session; it has distinct boundaries and it is maintained both within and across sessions . Knots are mostly situated in the place of introduction into the arena , here away from walls . Knots are not characterized by the features of a home base 
Invasive infections by fungal pathogens cause more deaths than malaria worldwide . We found the ergoline compound NGx04 in an antifungal screen , with selectivity over mammalian cells . High-resolution chemogenomics identified the lipid transfer protein Sec14p as the target of NGx04 and compound-resistant mutations in Sec14p define compound-target interactions in the substrate binding pocket of the protein . Beyond its essential lipid transfer function in a variety of pathogenic fungi , Sec14p is also involved in secretion of virulence determinants essential for the pathogenicity of fungi such as Cryptococcus neoformans , making Sec14p an attractive antifungal target . Consistent with this dual function , we demonstrate that NGx04 inhibits the growth of two clinical isolates of C . neoformans and that NGx04-related compounds have equal and even higher potency against C . neoformans . Furthermore NGx04 analogues showed fungicidal activity against a fluconazole resistant C . neoformans s
The treatment and control of schistosomiasis , an often neglected tropical disease that exacerbates poverty , depends on a single drug , praziquantel . The large-scale use of praziquantel might select for drug-resistant parasites , hence there is a need to develop new antischistosomal compounds . Here , we report that the antimalarial drug mefloquine possesses promising antischistosomal properties in mice . A single dose of mefloquine ( 200 or 400 mg/kg ) administered orally to mice infected with adult Schistosoma mansoni or adult S . japonicum resulted in high or complete total and female worm burden reductions ( 72 . 3%–100% ) . Importantly , high worm burden reductions were also observed for young developing stages of S . mansoni and S . japonicum harbored in the mouse . Both mefloquine erythro-enantiomers resulted in high and comparable total and female worm burden reductions when given to mice with either a sub-patent or patent S . mansoni infection . Our findings hold promise for
Podoconiosis is a non-filarial elephantiasis , which causes massive swelling of the lower legs . It was identified as a neglected tropical disease by WHO in 2011 . Understanding of the geographical distribution of the disease is incomplete . As part of a global mapping of podoconiosis , this study was conducted in Cameroon to map the distribution of the disease . This mapping work will help to generate data on the geographical distribution of podoconiosis in Cameroon and contribute to the global atlas of podoconiosis . We used a multi‐stage sampling design with stratification of the country by environmental risk of podoconiosis . We sampled 76 villages from 40 health districts from the ten Regions of Cameroon . All individuals of 15-years old or older in the village were surveyed house-to-house and screened for lymphedema . A clinical algorithm was used to reliably diagnose podoconiosis , excluding filarial-associated lymphedema . Individuals with lymphoedema were tested for circulatin
Stem cells have an innate ability to occupy their stem cell niche , which in turn , is optimized to house stem cells . Organ aging is associated with reduced stem cell occupancy in the niche , but the mechanisms involved are poorly understood . Here , we report that Notch signaling is increased with age in Drosophila female germline stem cells ( GSCs ) , and this results in their removal from the niche . Clonal analysis revealed that GSCs with low levels of Notch signaling exhibit increased adhesiveness to the niche , thereby out-competing their neighbors with higher levels of Notch; adhesiveness is altered through regulation of E-cadherin expression . Experimental enhancement of Notch signaling in GSCs hastens their age-dependent loss from the niche , and such loss is at least partially mediated by Sex lethal . However , disruption of Notch signaling in GSCs does not delay GSC loss during aging , and nor does it affect BMP signaling , which promotes self-renewal of GSCs . Finally , we
The UL97 protein of human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV , or HHV-5 ( human herpesvirus 5 ) ) , is a kinase that phosphorylates the cellular retinoblastoma ( Rb ) tumor suppressor and lamin A/C proteins that are also substrates of cellular cyclin-dependent kinases ( Cdks ) . A functional complementation assay has further shown that UL97 has authentic Cdk-like activity . The other seven human herpesviruses each encode a kinase with sequence and positional homology to UL97 . These UL97-homologous proteins have been termed the conserved herpesvirus protein kinases ( CHPKs ) to distinguish them from other human herpesvirus-encoded kinases . To determine if the Cdk-like activities of UL97 were shared by all of the CHPKs , we individually expressed epitope-tagged alleles of each protein in human Saos-2 cells to test for Rb phosphorylation , human U-2 OS cells to monitor nuclear lamina disruption and lamin A phosphorylation , or S . cerevisiae cdc28-13 mutant cells to directly assay for Cdk function 
Burkholderia pseudomallei , a Tier 1 Select Agent and the cause of melioidosis , is a Gram-negative bacillus present in the environment in many tropical countries . Defining the global pattern of B . pseudomallei distribution underpins efforts to prevent infection , and is dependent upon robust environmental sampling methodology . Our objective was to review the literature on the detection of environmental B . pseudomallei , update the risk map for melioidosis , and propose international consensus guidelines for soil sampling . An international working party ( Detection of Environmental Burkholderia pseudomallei Working Party ( DEBWorP ) ) was formed during the VIth World Melioidosis Congress in 2010 . PubMed ( January 1912 to December 2011 ) was searched using the following MeSH terms: pseudomallei or melioidosis . Bibliographies were hand-searched for secondary references . The reported geographical distribution of B . pseudomallei in the environment was mapped and categorized as def
The mechanism of membrane fusion by “class II” viral fusion proteins follows a pathway that involves large-scale domain rearrangements of the envelope glycoprotein ( E ) and a transition from dimers to trimers . The rearrangement is believed to proceed by an outward rotation of the E ectodomain after loss of the dimer interface , followed by a reassociation into extended trimers . The ∼55-aa-residue , membrane proximal “stem” can then zip up along domain II , bringing together the transmembrane segments of the C-terminus and the fusion loops at the tip of domain II . We find that peptides derived from the stem of dengue-virus E bind stem-less E trimer , which models a conformational intermediate . In vitro assays demonstrate that these peptides specifically block viral fusion . The peptides inhibit infectivity with potency proportional to their affinity for the conformational intermediate , even when free peptide is removed from a preincubated inoculum before infecting cells . We concl
Global estimates for cholera annually approximate 4 million cases worldwide with 95 , 000 deaths . Recent outbreaks , including Haiti and Yemen , are reminders that cholera is still a global health concern . Cholera outbreaks can rapidly induce high death tolls by overwhelming the capacity of health facilities , especially in remote areas or areas of civil unrest . Recent studies demonstrated that stool specimens preserved on filter paper facilitate molecular analysis of Vibrio cholerae in resource limited settings . Specimens preserved in a rapid , low-cost , safe and sustainable manner for sequencing provides previously unavailable data about circulating cholera strains . This may ultimately contribute new information to shape public policy response on cholera control and elimination . Whole genome sequencing ( WGS ) recovered close to a complete sequence of the V . cholerae O1 genome with satisfactory genome coverage from stool specimens enriched in alkaline peptone water ( APW ) an
Intense investigation has identified an elaborate protein network controlling epithelial polarity . Although precise subcellular targeting of apical and basolateral determinants is required for epithelial architecture , little is known about how the individual determinant proteins become localized within the cell . Through a genetic screen for epithelial defects in the Drosophila follicle cells , we have found that the cytoplasmic Dynein motor is an essential regulator of apico–basal polarity . Our data suggest that Dynein acts through the cytoplasmic scaffolding protein Stardust ( Sdt ) to localize the transmembrane protein Crumbs , in part through the apical targeting of specific sdt mRNA isoforms . We have mapped the sdt mRNA localization signal to an alternatively spliced coding exon . Intriguingly , the presence or absence of this exon corresponds to a developmental switch in sdt mRNA localization in which apical transcripts are only found during early stages of epithelial develop
The mode of reproduction in Leishmania spp has been argued to be essentially clonal . However , recent data ( genetic analysis of populations and co-infections in sand flies ) have proposed the existence of a non-obligate sexual cycle in the extracellular stage of the parasite within the sand fly vector . In this article we propose the existence of intraclonal genetic exchange in the natural vector of Leishmania infantum . We have developed transgenic L . infantum lines expressing drug resistance markers linked to green and red fluorescent reporters . We hypothesized whether those cells with identical genotype can recognize each other and mate . Both types of markers were successfully exchanged within the sand fly midgut of the natural vector Phlebotomus perniciosus when individuals from these species were fed with a mixture of parental clones . Using the yellow phenotype and drug resistance markers , we provide evidence for genetic exchange in L . infantum . The hybrid progeny appeare
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) caused by Leishmania donovani is a major health problem in Ethiopia . Parasites in disparate regions are transmitted by different vectors , and cluster in distinctive genotypes . Recently isolated strains from VL and HIV-VL co-infected patients in north and south Ethiopia were characterized as part of a longitudinal study on VL transmission . Sixty-three L . donovani strains were examined by polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) targeting three regions: internal transcribed spacer 1 ( ITS1 ) , cysteine protease B ( cpb ) , and HASPB ( k26 ) . ITS1- and cpb - PCR identified these strains as L . donovani . Interestingly , the k26 - PCR amplicon size varied depending on the patient's geographic origin . Most strains from northwestern Ethiopia ( 36/40 ) produced a 290 bp product with a minority ( 4/40 ) giving a 410 bp amplicon . All of the latter strains were isolated from patients with HIV-VL co-infections , while the former group contained both VL and HIV-VL co
Recombinant HIV-1 genomes contribute significantly to the diversity of variants within the HIV/AIDS pandemic . It is assumed that some of these mosaic genomes may have novel properties that have led to their prevalence , particularly in the case of the circulating recombinant forms ( CRFs ) . In regions of the HIV-1 genome where recombination has a tendency to convey a selective advantage to the virus , we predict that the distribution of breakpoints—the identifiable boundaries that delimit the mosaic structure—will deviate from the underlying null distribution . To test this hypothesis , we generate a probabilistic model of HIV-1 copy-choice recombination and compare the predicted breakpoint distribution to the distribution from the HIV/AIDS pandemic . Across much of the HIV-1 genome , we find that the observed frequencies of inter-subtype recombination are predicted accurately by our model . This observation strongly indicates that in these regions a probabilistic model , dependent o
Computational modeling plays an important role in modern neuroscience research . Much previous research has relied on statistical methods , separately , to address two problems that are actually interdependent . First , given a particular computational model , Bayesian hierarchical techniques have been used to estimate individual variation in parameters over a population of subjects , leveraging their population-level distributions . Second , candidate models are themselves compared , and individual variation in the expressed model estimated , according to the fits of the models to each subject . The interdependence between these two problems arises because the relevant population for estimating parameters of a model depends on which other subjects express the model . Here , we propose a hierarchical Bayesian inference ( HBI ) framework for concurrent model comparison , parameter estimation and inference at the population level , combining previous approaches . We show that this framew
Rhombomeres ( r ) contribute to brainstem auditory nuclei during development . Hox genes are determinants of rhombomere-derived fate and neuronal connectivity . Little is known about the contribution of individual rhombomeres and their associated Hox codes to auditory sensorimotor circuitry . Here , we show that r4 contributes to functionally linked sensory and motor components , including the ventral nucleus of lateral lemniscus , posterior ventral cochlear nuclei ( VCN ) , and motor olivocochlear neurons . Assembly of the r4-derived auditory components is involved in sound perception and depends on regulatory interactions between Hoxb1 and Hoxb2 . Indeed , in Hoxb1 and Hoxb2 mutant mice the transmission of low-level auditory stimuli is lost , resulting in hearing impairments . On the other hand , Hoxa2 regulates the Rig1 axon guidance receptor and controls contralateral projections from the anterior VCN to the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body , a circuit involved in sound localiz
The marine bacterium Saccharophagus degradans strain 2-40 ( Sde 2-40 ) is emerging as a vanguard of a recently discovered group of marine and estuarine bacteria that recycles complex polysaccharides . We report its complete genome sequence , analysis of which identifies an unusually large number of enzymes that degrade >10 complex polysaccharides . Not only is this an extraordinary range of catabolic capability , many of the enzymes exhibit unusual architecture including novel combinations of catalytic and substrate-binding modules . We hypothesize that many of these features are adaptations that facilitate depolymerization of complex polysaccharides in the marine environment . This is the first sequenced genome of a marine bacterium that can degrade plant cell walls , an important component of the carbon cycle that is not well-characterized in the marine environment . 
Japanese Encephalitis virus ( JEV ) is a zoonotic flavivirus that represents the most significant etiology of childhood viral neurological infections throughout the Asia . During the last 20 years , JEV genotype dominance has shifted from genotype III ( GIII ) to genotype I ( GI ) . To date , the exact mechanism of this displacement is still not known . Culex ( Cx . ) mosquitoes are the most common species in China and play an essential role in maintaining JEV enzootic transmission cycle . In this study , we used Cx . pipiens mosquitoes from China as an in vivo mosquito model to explore if mosquitoes played a potential role in JEV genotype shift . We exposed female Cx . pipiens mosquitoes orally to either GI or GIII JEV strains . Midgut , whole mosquitoes , secondary organs , and salivary glands of JEV-infected mosquitoes were collected at 7 and 14 days of post infection ( dpi ) and subjected to measure the infection rate , replication kinetics , dissemination rate and transmission pot
Dengue infection is the fastest spreading mosquito-borne viral disease , which affects people living in the tropical and subtropical countries . Malaysia had large dengue outbreaks in recent years . We aimed to study the demographics and clinical characteristics associated with dengue deaths in Malaysia . We conducted a retrospective review on all dengue deaths that occurred nationwide between 1st January 2013 and 31st December 2014 . Relevant data were extracted from mortality review reports and investigational forms . These cases were categorized into children ( <15 years ) , adults ( 15–59 years ) and elderly ( ≥60 years ) to compare their clinical characteristics . A total of 322 dengue deaths were reviewed . Their mean age was 40 . 7±19 . 30 years , half were females and 72 . 5% were adults . The median durations of first medical contact , and hospitalization were 1 and 3 days , respectively . Diabetes and hypertension were common co-morbidities among adults and elderly . The most
Individuals choose their mates so as to maximize reproductive success , and one important component of this choice is assessment of traits reflecting mate quality . Little is known about why specific traits are used for mate quality assessment nor about how they reflect it . We have previously shown that global manipulation of insulin signaling , a nutrient-sensing pathway governing investment in survival versus reproduction , affects female sexual attractiveness in the fruit fly , Drosophila melanogaster . Here we demonstrate that these effects on attractiveness derive from insulin signaling in the fat body and ovarian follicle cells , whose signals are integrated by pheromone-producing cells called oenocytes . Functional ovaries were required for global insulin signaling effects on attractiveness , and manipulations of insulin signaling specifically in late follicle cells recapitulated effects of global manipulations . Interestingly , modulation of insulin signaling in the fat body p
The Ebola virus disease ( EVD ) epidemic in West Africa in 2013–2015 spread heterogeneously across the three hardest-hit countries Guinea , Liberia and Sierra Leone and the estimation of national transmission of EVD provides little information about local dynamics . To investigate district-level transmissibility of EVD , we applied a statistical modelling approach to estimate the basic reproduction number ( R0 ) for each affected district and each country using weekly incident case numbers . We estimated growth rates during the early exponential phase of the outbreak using exponential regression of the case counts on the first eight weeks since onset . To take into account the heterogeneity between and within countries , we fitted a mixed effects model and calculated R0 based on the predicted individual growth rates and the reported serial interval distribution . At district level , R0 ranged from 0 . 36 ( Dubréka ) to 1 . 72 ( Beyla ) in Guinea , from 0 . 53 ( Maryland ) to 3 . 37 ( M
What factors determine a protein's rate of evolution are actively debated . Especially unclear is the relative role of intrinsic factors of present-day proteins versus historical factors such as protein age . Here we study the interplay of structural properties and evolutionary age , as determinants of protein evolutionary rate . We use a large set of one-to-one orthologs between human and mouse proteins , with mapped PDB structures . We report that previously observed structural correlations also hold within each age group – including relationships between solvent accessibility , designabililty , and evolutionary rates . However , age also plays a crucial role: age modulates the relationship between solvent accessibility and rate . Additionally , younger proteins , despite being less designable , tend to evolve faster than older proteins . We show that previously reported relationships between age and rate cannot be explained by structural biases among age groups . Finally , we introd
Polycomb repressive complex 2 ( PRC2 ) trimethylates lysine 27 of histone H3 ( H3K27me3 ) to regulate gene expression during diverse biological transitions in development , embryonic stem cell ( ESC ) differentiation , and cancer . Here , we show that Polycomb-like 3 ( Pcl3 ) is a component of PRC2 that promotes ESC self-renewal . Using mass spectrometry , we identified Pcl3 as a Suz12 binding partner and confirmed Pcl3 interactions with core PRC2 components by co-immunoprecipitation . Knockdown of Pcl3 in ESCs increases spontaneous differentiation , yet does not affect early differentiation decisions as assessed in teratomas and embryoid bodies , indicating that Pcl3 has a specific role in regulating ESC self-renewal . Consistent with Pcl3 promoting PRC2 function , decreasing Pcl3 levels reduces H3K27me3 levels while overexpressing Pcl3 increases H3K27me3 levels . Furthermore , chromatin immunoprecipitation and sequencing ( ChIP-seq ) reveal that Pcl3 co-localizes with PRC2 core compo
Food and feeding-state dependent changes in chemoreceptor gene expression may allow Caenorhabditis elegans to modify their chemosensory behavior , but the mechanisms essential for these expression changes remain poorly characterized . We had previously shown that expression of a feeding state-dependent chemoreceptor gene , srh-234 , in the ADL sensory neuron of C . elegans is regulated via the MEF-2 transcription factor . Here , we show that MEF-2 acts together with basic helix-loop-helix ( bHLH ) transcription factors to regulate srh-234 expression as a function of feeding state . We identify a cis-regulatory MEF2 binding site that is necessary and sufficient for the starvation-induced down regulation of srh-234 expression , while an E-box site known to bind bHLH factors is required to drive srh-234 expression in ADL . We show that HLH-2 ( E/Daughterless ) , HLH-3 and HLH-4 ( Achaete-scute homologs ) act in ADL neurons to regulate srh-234 expression . We further demonstrate that the e
Buruli ulcer ( BU ) is a destructive skin condition caused by infection with the environmental bacterium , Mycobacterium ulcerans . The mode of transmission of M . ulcerans is not completely understood , but several studies have explored the role of biting insects . In this study , we tested for an association between the detection of M . ulcerans in mosquitoes and the risk of BU disease in humans in an endemic area of southeastern Australia . Adult mosquitoes were trapped in seven towns on the Bellarine Peninsula in Victoria , Australia , from December 2004 to December 2009 and screened for M . ulcerans by real-time PCR . The number of laboratory-confirmed cases of BU in permanent residents of these towns diagnosed during the same period was tallied to determine the average cumulative incidence of BU in each location . Pearson's correlation coefficient ( r ) was calculated for the proportion of M . ulcerans-positive mosquitoes per town correlated with the incidence of BU per town . We
The rat demyelination ( dmy ) mutation serves as a unique model system to investigate the maintenance of myelin , because it provokes severe myelin breakdown in the central nervous system ( CNS ) after normal postnatal completion of myelination . Here , we report the molecular characterization of this mutation and discuss the possible pathomechanisms underlying demyelination . By positional cloning , we found that a G-to-A transition , 177 bp downstream of exon 3 of the Mrs2 ( MRS2 magnesium homeostasis factor ( Saccharomyces cerevisiae ) ) gene , generated a novel splice acceptor site which resulted in functional inactivation of the mutant allele . Transgenic rescue with wild-type Mrs2-cDNA validated our findings . Mrs2 encodes an essential component of the major Mg2+ influx system in mitochondria of yeast as well as human cells . We showed that the dmy/dmy rats have major mitochondrial deficits with a markedly elevated lactic acid concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid , a 60% redu
Microarray gene expression signatures hold great promise to improve diagnosis and prognosis of disease . However , current documentation standards of such signatures do not allow for an unambiguous application to study-external patients . This hinders independent evaluation , effectively delaying the use of signatures in clinical practice . Data from eight publicly available clinical microarray studies were analyzed and the consistency of study-internal with study-external diagnoses was evaluated . Study-external classifications were based on documented information only . Documenting a signature is conceptually different from reporting a list of genes . We show that even the exact quantitative specification of a classification rule alone does not define a signature unambiguously . We found that discrepancy between study-internal and study-external diagnoses can be as frequent as 30% ( worst case ) and 18% ( median ) . By using the proposed documentation by value strategy , which docume
Curli amyloid fibrils secreted by Enterobacteriaceae mediate host cell adhesion and contribute to biofilm formation , thereby promoting bacterial resistance to environmental stressors . Here , we present crystal structures of amyloid-forming segments from the major curli subunit , CsgA , revealing steric zipper fibrils of tightly mated β-sheets , demonstrating a structural link between curli and human pathological amyloids . D-enantiomeric peptides , originally developed to interfere with Alzheimer’s disease-associated amyloid-β , inhibited CsgA fibrillation and reduced biofilm formation in Salmonella typhimurium . Moreover , as previously shown , CsgA fibrils cross-seeded fibrillation of amyloid-β , providing support for the proposed structural resemblance and potential for cross-species amyloid interactions . The presented findings provide structural insights into amyloidogenic regions important for curli formation , suggest a novel strategy for disrupting amyloid-structured biofilms
Japanese encephalitis virus ( JEV ) is an important cause of encephalitis in most of Asia , with high case fatality rates and often significant neurologic sequelae among survivors . The epidemiology of JE in the Philippines is not well defined . To support consideration of JE vaccine for introduction into the national schedule in the Philippines , we conducted a systematic literature review and summarized JE surveillance data from 2011 to 2014 . We conducted searches on Japanese encephalitis and the Philippines in four databases and one library . Data from acute encephalitis syndrome ( AES ) and JE surveillance and from the national reference laboratory from January 2011 to March 2014 were tabulated and mapped . We identified 29 published reports and presentations on JE in the Philippines , including 5 serologic surveys , 18 reports of clinical cases , and 8 animal studies ( including two with both clinical cases and animal data ) . The 18 clinical studies reported 257 cases of laborat
The evolutionary origins of genetic robustness are still under debate: it may arise as a consequence of requirements imposed by varying environmental conditions , due to intrinsic factors such as metabolic requirements , or directly due to an adaptive selection in favor of genes that allow a species to endure genetic perturbations . Stratifying the individual effects of each origin requires one to study the pertaining evolutionary forces across many species under diverse conditions . Here we conduct the first large-scale computational study charting the level of robustness of metabolic networks of hundreds of bacterial species across many simulated growth environments . We provide evidence that variations among species in their level of robustness reflect ecological adaptations . We decouple metabolic robustness into two components and quantify the extents of each: the first , environmental-dependent , is responsible for at least 20% of the non-essential reactions and its extent is ass
Schistosoma infection is associated with immune modulation that can influence responses to non-schistosome antigens . Vaccine responses may be impaired in S . mansoni-infected individuals . We investigated effects of S . mansoni infection on responses to childhood measles catch-up immunisation and of praziquantel treatment on this outcome in a randomised trial . The Immune Modulation and Childhood Immunisation ( IMoChI ) study was based in Entebbe , Uganda . Children aged 3–5 years ( 193 S . mansoni-infected and 61 uninfected ) were enrolled . Infected children were randomised in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive praziquantel 2 weeks before , at time of , or 1 week after , measles catch-up immunisation . Plasma anti-measles IgG was measured at enrolment , 1 week and 24 weeks after measles immunisation . Primary outcomes were IgG levels and percentage of participants with levels considered protective against measles . Anti-measles IgG levels increased following immunisation , but at 1 week post-
The evolution of bacterial populations has recently become considerably better understood due to large-scale sequencing of population samples . It has become clear that DNA sequences from a multitude of genes , as well as a broad sample coverage of a target population , are needed to obtain a relatively unbiased view of its genetic structure and the patterns of ancestry connected to the strains . However , the traditional statistical methods for evolutionary inference , such as phylogenetic analysis , are associated with several difficulties under such an extensive sampling scenario , in particular when a considerable amount of recombination is anticipated to have taken place . To meet the needs of large-scale analyses of population structure for bacteria , we introduce here several statistical tools for the detection and representation of recombination between populations . Also , we introduce a model-based description of the shape of a population in sequence space , in terms of its m
Cortical rhythms have been thought to play crucial roles in our cognitive abilities . Rhythmic activity in the beta frequency band , around 20 Hz , has been reported in recent studies that focused on neural correlates of attention , indicating that top-down beta rhythms , generated in higher cognitive areas and delivered to earlier sensory areas , can support attentional gain modulation . To elucidate functional roles of beta rhythms and underlying mechanisms , we built a computational model of sensory cortical areas . Our simulation results show that top-down beta rhythms can activate ascending synaptic projections from L5 to L4 and L2/3 , responsible for biased competition in superficial layers . In the simulation , slow-inhibitory interneurons are shown to resonate to the 20 Hz input and modulate the activity in superficial layers in an attention-related manner . The predicted critical roles of these cells in attentional gain provide a potential mechanism by which cholinergic drive 
Stochastic transmission dynamic models are especially useful for studying the early emergence of novel pathogens given the importance of chance events when the number of infectious individuals is small . However , methods for parameter estimation and prediction for these types of stochastic models remain limited . In this manuscript , we describe a calibration and prediction framework for stochastic compartmental transmission models of epidemics . The proposed method , Multiple Shooting for Stochastic systems ( MSS ) , applies a linear noise approximation to describe the size of the fluctuations , and uses each new surveillance observation to update the belief about the true epidemic state . Using simulated outbreaks of a novel viral pathogen , we evaluate the accuracy of MSS for real-time parameter estimation and prediction during epidemics . We assume that weekly counts for the number of new diagnosed cases are available and serve as an imperfect proxy of incidence . We show that MSS
Every instant of perception depends on a cascade of brain processes calibrated to the history of sensory and decisional events . In the present work , we show that human visual perception is constantly shaped by two contrasting forces exerted by sensory adaptation and past decisions . In a series of experiments , we used multilevel modeling and cross-validation approaches to investigate the impact of previous stimuli and decisions on behavioral reports during adjustment and forced-choice tasks . Our results revealed that each perceptual report is permeated by opposite biases from a hierarchy of serially dependent processes: Low-level adaptation repels perception away from previous stimuli , whereas decisional traces attract perceptual reports toward the recent past . In this hierarchy of serial dependence , “continuity fields” arise from the inertia of decisional templates and not from low-level sensory processes . This finding is consistent with a Two-process model of serial dependenc
The Clock–Cycle ( CLK–CYC ) heterodimer constitutes a key circadian transcription complex in Drosophila . CYC has a DNA-binding domain but lacks an activation domain . Previous experiments also indicate that most of the transcriptional activity of CLK–CYC derives from the glutamine-rich region of its partner CLK . To address the role of transcription in core circadian timekeeping , we have analyzed the effects of a CYC–viral protein 16 ( VP16 ) fusion protein in the Drosophila system . The addition of this potent and well-studied viral transcriptional activator ( VP16 ) to CYC imparts to the CLK–CYC-VP16 complex strongly enhanced transcriptional activity relative to that of CLK–CYC . This increase is manifested in flies expressing CYC-VP16 as well as in S2 cells . These flies also have increased levels of CLK–CYC direct target gene mRNAs as well as a short period , implicating circadian transcription in period determination . A more detailed examination of reporter gene expression in C
Horizontally acquired genes typically function as autonomous units conferring new abilities when introduced into different species . However , we reasoned that proteins preexisting in an organism might constrain the functionality of a horizontally acquired gene product if it operates on an ancestral pathway . Here , we determine how the horizontally acquired pmrD gene product activates the ancestral PmrA/PmrB two-component system in Salmonella enterica but not in the closely related bacterium Escherichia coli . The Salmonella PmrD protein binds to the phosphorylated PmrA protein ( PmrA-P ) , protecting it from dephosphorylation by the PmrB protein . This results in transcription of PmrA-dependent genes , including those conferring polymyxin B resistance . We now report that the E . coli PmrD protein can activate the PmrA/PmrB system in Salmonella even though it cannot do it in E . coli , suggesting that these two species differ in an additional component controlling PmrA-P levels . We 
The differentiation of embryonic stem cells is initiated by a gradual loss of pluripotency-associated transcripts and induction of differentiation genes . Accordingly , the detection of differentially expressed genes at the early stages of differentiation could assist the identification of the causal genes that either promote or inhibit differentiation . The previous methods of identifying differentially expressed genes by comparing different cell types would inevitably include a large portion of genes that respond to , rather than regulate , the differentiation process . We demonstrate through the use of biological replicates and a novel statistical approach that the gene expression data obtained without prior separation of cell types are informative for detecting differentially expressed genes at the early stages of differentiation . Applying the proposed method to analyze the differentiation of murine embryonic stem cells , we identified and then experimentally verified Smarcad1 as 
Groupwise functional analysis of gene variants is becoming standard in next-generation sequencing studies . As the function of many genes is unknown and their classification to pathways is scant , functional associations between genes are often inferred from large-scale omics data . Such data types—including protein–protein interactions and gene co-expression networks—are used to examine the interrelations of the implicated genes . Statistical significance is assessed by comparing the interconnectedness of the mutated genes with that of random gene sets . However , interconnectedness can be affected by confounding bias , potentially resulting in false positive findings . We show that genes implicated through de novo sequence variants are biased in their coding-sequence length and longer genes tend to cluster together , which leads to exaggerated p-values in functional studies; we present here an integrative method that addresses these bias . To discern molecular pathways relevant to co
In an effort to prevent continued increases in obesity and diabetes , in January 2014 , the Mexican government implemented an 8% tax on nonessential foods with energy density ≥275 kcal/100 g and a peso-per-liter tax on sugar-sweetened beverages ( SSBs ) . Limited rigorous evaluations of food taxes exist worldwide . The objective of this study was to examine changes in volume of taxed and untaxed packaged food purchases in response to these taxes in the entire sample and stratified by socioeconomic status ( SES ) . This study uses data on household packaged food purchases representative of the Mexican urban population from The Nielsen Company’s Mexico Consumer Panel Services ( CPS ) . We included 6 , 248 households that participated in the Nielsen CPS in at least 2 mo during 2012–2014; average household follow-up was 32 . 7 mo . We analyzed the volume of purchases of taxed and untaxed foods from January 2012 to December 2014 , using a longitudinal , fixed-effects model that adjusted for
Power laws describe brain functions at many levels ( from biophysics to psychophysics ) . It is therefore possible that they are generated by similar underlying mechanisms . Previously , the response properties of a collision-sensitive neuron were reproduced by a model which used a power law for scaling its inhibitory input . A common characteristic of such neurons is that they integrate information across a large part of the visual field . Here we present a biophysically plausible model of collision-sensitive neurons with η-like response properties , in which we assume that each information channel is noisy and has a response threshold . Then , an approximative power law is obtained as a result of pooling these channels . We show that with this mechanism one can successfully predict many response characteristics of the Lobula Giant Movement Detector Neuron ( LGMD ) . Moreover , the results depend critically on noise in the inhibitory pathway , but they are fairly robust against noise 
Cameroon is endemic for Buruli ulcer ( BU ) and organised institutional BU control began in 2002 . The objective was to describe the evolution , achievements and challenges of the national BU control programme ( NBUCP ) and to make suggestions for scaling up the programme . We analysed collated data on BU from 2001 to 2014 and reviewed activity reports NBUCP in Cameroon . Case-detection rates and key BU control indicators were calculated and plotted on a time scale to determine trends in performance . A linear regression analysis of BU detection rate from 2005–2014 was done . The regression coefficient was tested statistically for the significance in variation of BU detection rate . In 14 years of BU control , 3700 cases were notified . The BU detection rate dropped significantly from 3 . 89 to 1 . 45 per 100 000 inhabitants . The number of BU endemic health districts rose from two to 64 . Five BU diagnostic and treatment centres are functional and two more are planned for 2015 . The h
The ability to correctly estimate the probability of one’s choices being correct is fundamental to optimally re-evaluate previous choices or to arbitrate between different decision strategies . Experimental evidence nonetheless suggests that this metacognitive process—confidence judgment- is susceptible to numerous biases . Here , we investigate the effect of outcome valence ( gains or losses ) on confidence while participants learned stimulus-outcome associations by trial-and-error . In two experiments , participants were more confident in their choices when learning to seek gains compared to avoiding losses , despite equal difficulty and performance between those two contexts . Computational modelling revealed that this bias is driven by the context-value , a dynamically updated estimate of the average expected-value of choice options , necessary to explain equal performance in the gain and loss domain . The biasing effect of context-value on confidence , revealed here for the first 
Among the four non-structural proteins of alphaviruses the function of nsP3 is the least well understood . NsP3 is a component of the viral replication complex , and composed of a conserved aminoterminal macro domain implicated in viral RNA synthesis , and a poorly conserved carboxyterminal region . Despite the lack of overall homology we noted a carboxyterminal proline-rich sequence motif shared by many alphaviral nsP3 proteins , and found it to serve as a preferred target site for the Src-homology 3 ( SH3 ) domains of amphiphysin-1 and -2 . Nsp3 proteins of Semliki Forest ( SFV ) , Sindbis ( SINV ) , and Chikungunya viruses all showed avid and SH3-dependent binding to amphiphysins . Upon alphavirus infection the intracellular distribution of amphiphysin was dramatically altered and colocalized with nsP3 . Mutations in nsP3 disrupting the amphiphysin SH3 binding motif as well as RNAi-mediated silencing of amphiphysin-2 expression resulted in impaired viral RNA replication in HeLa cell
The human mutilating disease chromoblastomycosis is caused by melanized members of the order Chaetothyriales . To assess population diversity among 123 clinical strains of agents of the disease in Brazil we applied sequencing of the rDNA internal transcribed spacer region , and partial cell division cycle and β-tubulin genes . Strains studied were limited to three clusters divided over the single family Herpotrichiellaceae known to comprise agents of the disease . A Fonsecaea cluster contained the most important agents , among which F . pedrosoi was prevalent with 80% of the total set of strains , followed by 13% for F . monophora , 3% for F . nubica , and a single isolate of F . pugnacius . Additional agents , among which two novel species , were located among members of the genus Rhinocladiella and Cyphellophora , with frequencies of 3% and 1% , respectively . 
The DNA damage response ( DDR ) is an essential signaling pathway that detects DNA lesions , which constantly occur upon either endogenous or exogenous assaults , and maintains genetic integrity . An infection by an invading pathogen is one such assault , but how bacteria impact the cellular DDR is poorly documented . Here , we report that infection with Listeria monocytogenes induces host DNA breaks . Strikingly , the signature response to these breaks is only moderately activated . We uncover the role of the listerial toxin listeriolysin O ( LLO ) in blocking the signaling response to DNA breaks through degradation of the sensor Mre11 . Knocking out or inactivating proteins involved in the DDR promotes bacterial replication showing the importance of this mechanism for the control of infection . Together , our data highlight that bacterial dampening of the DDR is critical for a successful listerial infection . 
The human HSV-1 and -2 are common pathogens of human diseases . Both host and viral factors are involved in HSV lytic infection , although detailed mechanisms remain elusive . By screening a chemical library of epigenetic regulation , we identified bromodomain-containing protein 4 ( BRD4 ) as a critical player in HSV infection . We show that treatment with pan BD domain inhibitor enhanced both HSV infection . Using JQ1 as a probe , we found that JQ1 , a defined BD1 inhibitor , acts through BRD4 protein since knockdown of BRD4 expression ablated JQ1 effect on HSV infection . BRD4 regulates HSV replication through complex formation involving CDK9 and RNAP II; whereas , JQ1 promotes HSV-1 infection by allocating the complex to HSV gene promoters . Therefore , suppression of BRD4 expression or inhibition of CDK9 activity impeded HSV infection . Our data support a model that JQ1 enhances HSV infection by switching BRD4 to transcription regulation of viral gene expression from chromatin targ
We aim to understand the microbial ecology of noma ( cancrum oris ) , a devastating ancient illness which causes severe facial disfigurement in>140 , 000 malnourished children every year . The cause of noma is still elusive . A chaotic mix of microbial infection , oral hygiene and weakened immune system likely contribute to the development of oral lesions . These lesions are a plausible entry point for unidentified microorganisms that trigger gangrenous facial infections . To catalog bacteria present in noma lesions and identify candidate noma-triggering organisms , we performed a cross-sectional sequencing study of 16S rRNA gene amplicons from sixty samples of gingival fluid from twelve healthy children , twelve children suffering from noma ( lesion and healthy sites ) , and twelve children suffering from Acute Necrotizing Gingivitis ( ANG ) ( lesion and healthy sites ) . Relative to healthy individuals , samples taken from lesions in diseased mouths were enriched with Spirochaetes an
Bacteria use quorum sensing to coordinate adaptation properties , cell fate or commitment to sporulation . The infectious cycle of Bacillus thuringiensis in the insect host is a powerful model to investigate the role of quorum sensing in natural conditions . It is tuned by communication systems regulators belonging to the RNPP family and directly regulated by re-internalized signaling peptides . One such RNPP regulator , NprR , acts in the presence of its cognate signaling peptide NprX as a transcription factor , regulating a set of genes involved in the survival of these bacteria in the insect cadaver . Here , we demonstrate that , in the absence of NprX and independently of its transcriptional activator function , NprR negatively controls sporulation . NprR inhibits expression of Spo0A-regulated genes by preventing the KinA-dependent phosphorylation of the phosphotransferase Spo0F , thus delaying initiation of the sporulation process . This NprR function displays striking similaritie
Infection with HIV cannot currently be cured; however it can be controlled by combination treatment with multiple anti-retroviral drugs . Given different viral genotypes for virtually each individual patient , the question now arises which drug combination to use to achieve effective treatment . With the availability of viral genotypic data and clinical phenotypic data , it has become possible to create computational models able to predict an optimal treatment regimen for an individual patient . Current models are based only on sequence data derived from viral genotyping; chemical similarity of drugs is not considered . To explore the added value of chemical similarity inclusion we applied proteochemometric models , combining chemical and protein target properties in a single bioactivity model . Our dataset was a large scale clinical database of genotypic and phenotypic information ( in total ca . 300 , 000 drug-mutant bioactivity data points , 4 ( NNRTI ) , 8 ( NRTI ) or 9 ( PI ) drug
The mechanism of eukaryotic chemotaxis remains unclear despite intensive study . The most frequently described mechanism acts through attractants causing actin polymerization , in turn leading to pseudopod formation and cell movement . We recently proposed an alternative mechanism , supported by several lines of data , in which pseudopods are made by a self-generated cycle . If chemoattractants are present , they modulate the cycle rather than directly causing actin polymerization . The aim of this work is to test the explanatory and predictive powers of such pseudopod-based models to predict the complex behaviour of cells in chemotaxis . We have now tested the effectiveness of this mechanism using a computational model of cell movement and chemotaxis based on pseudopod autocatalysis . The model reproduces a surprisingly wide range of existing data about cell movement and chemotaxis . It simulates cell polarization and persistence without stimuli and selection of accurate pseudopods wh
Fleas can transmit Yersinia pestis by two mechanisms , early-phase transmission ( EPT ) and biofilm-dependent transmission ( BDT ) . Transmission efficiency varies among flea species and the results from different studies have not always been consistent . One complicating variable is the species of rodent blood used for the infectious blood meal . To gain insight into the mechanism of EPT and the effect that host blood has on it , fleas were fed bacteremic mouse , rat , guinea pig , or gerbil blood; and the location and characteristics of the infection in the digestive tract and transmissibility of Y . pestis were assessed 1 to 3 days after infection . Surprisingly , 10–28% of two rodent flea species fed bacteremic rat or guinea pig blood refluxed a portion of the infected blood meal into the esophagus within 24 h of feeding . We term this phenomenon post-infection esophageal reflux ( PIER ) . In contrast , PIER was rarely observed in rodent fleas fed bacteremic mouse or gerbil blood .
Positive correlations in the activity of neurons are widely observed in the brain . Previous studies have shown these correlations to be detrimental to the fidelity of population codes , or at best marginally favorable compared to independent codes . Here , we show that positive correlations can enhance coding performance by astronomical factors . Specifically , the probability of discrimination error can be suppressed by many orders of magnitude . Likewise , the number of stimuli encoded—the capacity—can be enhanced more than tenfold . These effects do not necessitate unrealistic correlation values , and can occur for populations with a few tens of neurons . We further show that both effects benefit from heterogeneity commonly seen in population activity . Error suppression and capacity enhancement rest upon a pattern of correlation . Tuning of one or several effective parameters can yield a limit of perfect coding: the corresponding pattern of positive correlation leads to a ‘lock-in
Vibrio cholerae is the cause of cholera , a severe watery diarrhea . Protection against cholera is serogroup specific . Serogroup specificity is defined by the O-specific polysaccharide ( OSP ) component of lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) . Here we describe a conjugate vaccine for cholera prepared via squaric acid chemistry from the OSP of V . cholerae O1 Inaba strain PIC018 and a recombinant heavy chain fragment of tetanus toxin ( OSP:rTTHc ) . We assessed a range of vaccine doses based on the OSP content of the vaccine ( 10-50 μg ) , vaccine compositions varying by molar loading ratio of OSP to rTTHc ( 3:1 , 5:1 , 10:1 ) , effect of an adjuvant , and route of immunization . Immunized mice developed prominent anti-OSP and anti-TT serum IgG responses , as well as vibriocidal antibody and memory B cell responses following intramuscular or intradermal vaccination . Mice did not develop anti-squarate responses . Intestinal lamina proprial IgA responses targeting OSP occurred following intrader
Immunochromatographic card test ( ICT ) is a tool to map the distribution of Wuchereria bancrofti . In areas highly endemic for loaisis in DRC and Cameroon , a relationship has been envisaged between high L . loa microfilaria ( Mf ) loads and ICT positivity . However , similar associations have not been demonstrated from other areas with contrasting levels of L . loa endemicity . This study investigated the cross-reactivity of ICT when mapping lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) in areas with contrasting endemicity levels of loiasis and mansonellosis in Cameroon . A cross-sectional study to assess the prevalence and intensity of W . bancrofti , L . loa and M . perstans was carried out in 42 villages across three regions ( East , North-west and South-west ) of the Cameroon rainforest domain . Diurnal blood was collected from participants for the detection of circulating filarial antigen ( CFA ) by ICT and assessment of Mf using a thick blood smear . Clinical manifestations of LF were also asses
Positive-strand RNA viruses , a large group including human pathogens such as SARS-coronavirus ( SARS-CoV ) , replicate in the cytoplasm of infected host cells . Their replication complexes are commonly associated with modified host cell membranes . Membrane structures supporting viral RNA synthesis range from distinct spherular membrane invaginations to more elaborate webs of packed membranes and vesicles . Generally , their ultrastructure , morphogenesis , and exact role in viral replication remain to be defined . Poorly characterized double-membrane vesicles ( DMVs ) were previously implicated in SARS-CoV RNA synthesis . We have now applied electron tomography of cryofixed infected cells for the three-dimensional imaging of coronavirus-induced membrane alterations at high resolution . Our analysis defines a unique reticulovesicular network of modified endoplasmic reticulum that integrates convoluted membranes , numerous interconnected DMVs ( diameter 200–300 nm ) , and “vesicle pack
Though central to our understanding of how roots perform their vital function of scavenging water and solutes from the soil , no direct genetic evidence currently exists to support the foundational model that suberin acts to form a chemical barrier limiting the extracellular , or apoplastic , transport of water and solutes in plant roots . Using the newly characterized enhanced suberin1 ( esb1 ) mutant , we established a connection in Arabidopsis thaliana between suberin in the root and both water movement through the plant and solute accumulation in the shoot . Esb1 mutants , characterized by increased root suberin , were found to have reduced day time transpiration rates and increased water-use efficiency during their vegetative growth period . Furthermore , these changes in suberin and water transport were associated with decreases in the accumulation of Ca , Mn , and Zn and increases in the accumulation of Na , S , K , As , Se , and Mo in the shoot . Here , we present direct geneti
The single photon response ( SPR ) in vertebrate phototransduction is regulated by the dynamics of R* during its lifetime , including the random number of phosphorylations , the catalytic activity and the random sojourn time at each phosphorylation level . Because of this randomness the electrical responses are expected to be inherently variable . However the SPR is highly reproducible . The mechanisms that confer to the SPR such a low variability are not completely understood . The kinetics of rhodopsin deactivation is investigated by a Continuous Time Markov Chain ( CTMC ) based on the biochemistry of rhodopsin activation and deactivation , interfaced with a spatio-temporal model of phototransduction . The model parameters are extracted from the photoresponse data of both wild type and mutant mice , having variable numbers of phosphorylation sites and , with the same set of parameters , the model reproduces both WT and mutant responses . The sources of variability are dissected into 
The dynamics of stochastic reaction networks within cells are inevitably modulated by factors considered extrinsic to the network such as , for instance , the fluctuations in ribosome copy numbers for a gene regulatory network . While several recent studies demonstrate the importance of accounting for such extrinsic components , the resulting models are typically hard to analyze . In this work we develop a general mathematical framework that allows to uncouple the network from its dynamic environment by incorporating only the environment's effect onto the network into a new model . More technically , we show how such fluctuating extrinsic components ( e . g . , chemical species ) can be marginalized in order to obtain this decoupled model . We derive its corresponding process- and master equations and show how stochastic simulations can be performed . Using several case studies , we demonstrate the significance of the approach . 
Much progress has been made in brain-machine interfaces ( BMI ) using decoders such as Kalman filters and finding their parameters with closed-loop decoder adaptation ( CLDA ) . However , current decoders do not model the spikes directly , and hence may limit the processing time-scale of BMI control and adaptation . Moreover , while specialized CLDA techniques for intention estimation and assisted training exist , a unified and systematic CLDA framework that generalizes across different setups is lacking . Here we develop a novel closed-loop BMI training architecture that allows for processing , control , and adaptation using spike events , enables robust control and extends to various tasks . Moreover , we develop a unified control-theoretic CLDA framework within which intention estimation , assisted training , and adaptation are performed . The architecture incorporates an infinite-horizon optimal feedback-control ( OFC ) model of the brain’s behavior in closed-loop BMI control , and
Redundancies and correlations in the responses of sensory neurons may seem to waste neural resources , but they can also carry cues about structured stimuli and may help the brain to correct for response errors . To investigate the effect of stimulus structure on redundancy in retina , we measured simultaneous responses from populations of retinal ganglion cells presented with natural and artificial stimuli that varied greatly in correlation structure; these stimuli and recordings are publicly available online . Responding to spatio-temporally structured stimuli such as natural movies , pairs of ganglion cells were modestly more correlated than in response to white noise checkerboards , but they were much less correlated than predicted by a non-adapting functional model of retinal response . Meanwhile , responding to stimuli with purely spatial correlations , pairs of ganglion cells showed increased correlations consistent with a static , non-adapting receptive field and nonlinearity .
Genetic interactions occur when a combination of mutations results in a surprising phenotype . These interactions capture functional redundancy , and thus are important for predicting function , dissecting protein complexes into functional pathways , and exploring the mechanistic underpinnings of common human diseases . Synthetic sickness and lethality are the most studied types of genetic interactions in yeast . However , even in yeast , only a small proportion of gene pairs have been tested for genetic interactions due to the large number of possible combinations of gene pairs . To expand the set of known synthetic lethal ( SL ) interactions , we have devised an integrative , multi-network approach for predicting these interactions that significantly improves upon the existing approaches . First , we defined a large number of features for characterizing the relationships between pairs of genes from various data sources . In particular , these features are independent of the known SL 
The BRCA Challenge is a long-term data-sharing project initiated within the Global Alliance for Genomics and Health ( GA4GH ) to aggregate BRCA1 and BRCA2 data to support highly collaborative research activities . Its goal is to generate an informed and current understanding of the impact of genetic variation on cancer risk across the iconic cancer predisposition genes , BRCA1 and BRCA2 . Initially , reported variants in BRCA1 and BRCA2 available from public databases were integrated into a single , newly created site , www . brcaexchange . org . The purpose of the BRCA Exchange is to provide the community with a reliable and easily accessible record of variants interpreted for a high-penetrance phenotype . More than 20 , 000 variants have been aggregated , three times the number found in the next-largest public database at the project’s outset , of which approximately 7 , 250 have expert classifications . The data set is based on shared information from existing clinical databases—Bre
Malaria , caused by the apicomplexan parasite Plasmodium , still represents a major threat to human health and welfare and leads to about one million human deaths annually . Plasmodium is a rapidly multiplying unicellular organism undergoing a complex developmental cycle in man and mosquito – a life style that requires rapid adaptation to various environments . In order to deal with high fluxes of reactive oxygen species and maintain redox regulatory processes and pathogenicity , Plasmodium depends upon an adequate redox balance . By systematically studying the subcellular localization of the major antioxidant and redox regulatory proteins , we obtained the first complete map of redox compartmentation in Plasmodium falciparum . We demonstrate the targeting of two plasmodial peroxiredoxins and a putative glyoxalase system to the apicoplast , a non-photosynthetic plastid . We furthermore obtained a complete picture of the compartmentation of thioredoxin- and glutaredoxin-like proteins . 
PUMA , which belongs to the BH3-only protein family , is an intrinsically disordered protein ( IDP ) . It binds to its cellular partner Mcl-1 through its BH3 motif , which folds upon binding into an α helix . We have applied a structure-based coarse-grained model , with an explicit Debye—Hückel charge model , to probe the importance of electrostatic interactions both in the early and the later stages of this model coupled folding and binding process . This model was carefully calibrated with the experimental data on helical content and affinity , and shown to be consistent with previously published experimental data on binding rate changes with respect to ionic strength . We find that intramolecular electrostatic interactions influence the unbound states of PUMA only marginally . Our results further suggest that intermolecular electrostatic interactions , and in particular non-native electrostatic interactions , are involved in formation of the initial encounter complex . We are able t
Polycomb group ( PcG ) proteins are conserved chromatin factors that maintain silencing of key developmental genes outside of their expression domains . Recent genome-wide analyses showed a Polycomb ( PC ) distribution with binding to discrete PcG response elements ( PREs ) . Within the cell nucleus , PcG proteins localize in structures called PC bodies that contain PcG-silenced genes , and it has been recently shown that PREs form local and long-range spatial networks . Here , we studied the nuclear distribution of two PcG proteins , PC and Polyhomeotic ( PH ) . Thanks to a combination of immunostaining , immuno-FISH , and live imaging of GFP fusion proteins , we could analyze the formation and the mobility of PC bodies during fly embryogenesis as well as compare their behavior to that of the condensed fraction of euchromatin . Immuno-FISH experiments show that PC bodies mainly correspond to 3D structural counterparts of the linear genomic domains identified in genome-wide studies . D
Somatic mutations of mtDNA are implicated in the aging process , but there is no universally accepted method for their accurate quantification . We have used ultra-deep sequencing to study genome-wide mtDNA mutation load in the liver of normally- and prematurely-aging mice . Mice that are homozygous for an allele expressing a proof-reading–deficient mtDNA polymerase ( mtDNA mutator mice ) have 10-times-higher point mutation loads than their wildtype siblings . In addition , the mtDNA mutator mice have increased levels of a truncated linear mtDNA molecule , resulting in decreased sequence coverage in the deleted region . In contrast , circular mtDNA molecules with large deletions occur at extremely low frequencies in mtDNA mutator mice and can therefore not drive the premature aging phenotype . Sequence analysis shows that the main proportion of the mutation load in heterozygous mtDNA mutator mice and their wildtype siblings is inherited from their heterozygous mothers consistent with g
The anaerobic bacterium Fusobacterium nucleatum uses glutamate decarboxylation to generate a transmembrane gradient of Na+ . Here , we demonstrate that this ion-motive force is directly coupled to ATP synthesis , via an F1Fo-ATP synthase with a novel Na+ recognition motif , shared by other human pathogens . Molecular modeling and free-energy simulations of the rotary element of the enzyme , the c-ring , indicate Na+ specificity in physiological settings . Consistently , activity measurements showed Na+ stimulation of the enzyme , either membrane-embedded or isolated , and ATP synthesis was sensitive to the Na+ ionophore monensin . Furthermore , Na+ has a protective effect against inhibitors targeting the ion-binding sites , both in the complete ATP synthase and the isolated c-ring . Definitive evidence of Na+ coupling is provided by two identical crystal structures of the c11 ring , solved by X-ray crystallography at 2 . 2 and 2 . 6 Å resolution , at pH 5 . 3 and 8 . 7 , respectively .
αβ T cell receptor ( TCR ) recognition of foreign peptides bound to major histocompatibility complex ( pMHC ) molecules on the surface of antigen presenting cells is a key event in the initiation of adaptive cellular immunity . In vitro , high-affinity binding and/or long-lived interactions between TCRs and pMHC correlate with high-potency T cell activation . However , less is known about the influence of TCR/pMHC interaction parameters on T cell responses in vivo . We studied the influence of TCR/pMHC binding characteristics on in vivo T cell immunity by tracking CD4+ T cell activation , effector , and memory responses to immunization with peptides exhibiting a range of TCR/pMHC half-lives and in vitro T cell activation potencies . Contrary to predictions from in vitro studies , we found that optimal in vivo T cell responses occur to ligands with intermediate TCR/pMHC half-lives . The diminished in vivo responses we observed to the ligand exhibiting the longest TCR/pMHC half-life were
The ascomycetous fungus Nectria haematococca , ( asexual name Fusarium solani ) , is a member of a group of >50 species known as the “Fusarium solani species complex” . Members of this complex have diverse biological properties including the ability to cause disease on >100 genera of plants and opportunistic infections in humans . The current research analyzed the most extensively studied member of this complex , N . haematococca mating population VI ( MPVI ) . Several genes controlling the ability of individual isolates of this species to colonize specific habitats are located on supernumerary chromosomes . Optical mapping revealed that the sequenced isolate has 17 chromosomes ranging from 530 kb to 6 . 52 Mb and that the physical size of the genome , 54 . 43 Mb , and the number of predicted genes , 15 , 707 , are among the largest reported for ascomycetes . Two classes of genes have contributed to gene expansion: specific genes that are not found in other fungi including its closest 
Egress of newly assembled herpesvirus particles from infected cells is a highly dynamic process involving the host secretory pathway working in concert with viral components . To elucidate the location , dynamics , and molecular mechanisms of alpha herpesvirus egress , we developed a live-cell fluorescence microscopy method to visualize the final transport and exocytosis of pseudorabies virus ( PRV ) particles in non-polarized epithelial cells . This method is based on total internal reflection fluorescence ( TIRF ) microscopy to selectively image fluorescent virus particles near the plasma membrane , and takes advantage of a virus-encoded pH-sensitive probe to visualize the precise moment and location of particle exocytosis . We performed single-particle tracking and mean squared displacement analysis to characterize particle motion , and imaged a panel of cellular proteins to identify those spatially and dynamically associated with viral exocytosis . Based on our data , individual vi
Previous studies on the association of enterobiasis and chronic inflammatory diseases have revealed contradictory results . The interaction of Enterobius vermicularis infection in particular with gut microbiota and induced immune responses has never been thoroughly examined . In order to answer the question of whether exposure to pinworm and mebendazole can shift the intestinal microbial composition and immune responses , we recruited 109 ( 30 pinworm-negative , 79 pinworm-infected ) first and fourth grade primary school children in Taichung , Taiwan , for a gut microbiome study and an intestinal cytokine and SIgA analysis . In the pinworm-infected individuals , fecal samples were collected again at 2 weeks after administration of 100 mg mebendazole . Gut microbiota diversity increased after Enterobius infection , and it peaked after administration of mebendazole . At the phylum level , pinworm infection and mebendazole deworming were associated with a decreased relative abundance of F
Efforts to identify loci underlying complex traits generally assume that most genetic variance is additive . Here , we examined the genetics of Arabidopsis thaliana root length and found that the genomic narrow-sense heritability for this trait in the examined population was statistically zero . The low amount of additive genetic variance that could be captured by the genome-wide genotypes likely explains why no associations to root length could be found using standard additive-model-based genome-wide association ( GWA ) approaches . However , as the broad-sense heritability for root length was significantly larger , and primarily due to epistasis , we also performed an epistatic GWA analysis to map loci contributing to the epistatic genetic variance . Four interacting pairs of loci were revealed , involving seven chromosomal loci that passed a standard multiple-testing corrected significance threshold . The genotype-phenotype maps for these pairs revealed epistasis that cancelled out 
Inherited mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) mutations have emerged as a common cause of human disease , with mutations occurring multiple times in the world population . The clinical presentation of three pathogenic mtDNA mutations is strongly associated with a background mtDNA haplogroup , but it is not clear whether this is limited to a handful of examples or is a more general phenomenon . To address this , we determined the characteristics of 30 , 506 mtDNA sequences sampled globally . After performing several quality control steps , we ascribed an established pathogenicity score to the major alleles for each sequence . The mean pathogenicity score for known disease-causing mutations was significantly different between mtDNA macro-haplogroups . Several mutations were observed across all haplogroup backgrounds , whereas others were only observed on specific clades . In some instances this reflected a founder effect , but in others , the mutation recurred but only within the same phylogenet
In cancer metastasis , embryonic development , and wound healing , cells can coordinate their motion , leading to collective motility . To characterize these cell-cell interactions , which include contact inhibition of locomotion ( CIL ) , micropatterned substrates are often used to restrict cell migration to linear , quasi-one-dimensional paths . In these assays , collisions between polarized cells occur frequently with only a few possible outcomes , such as cells reversing direction , sticking to one another , or walking past one another . Using a computational phase field model of collective cell motility that includes the mechanics of cell shape and a minimal chemical model for CIL , we are able to reproduce all cases seen in two-cell collisions . A subtle balance between the internal cell polarization , CIL and cell-cell adhesion governs the collision outcome . We identify the parameters that control transitions between the different cases , including cell-cell adhesion , propulsi
The dissociation mechanism of the thioredoxin ( Trx ) mixed disulfide complexes is unknown and has been debated for more than twenty years . Specifically , opposing arguments for the activation of the nucleophilic cysteine as a thiolate during the dissociation of the complex have been put forward . As a key model , the complex between Trx and its endogenous substrate , arsenate reductase ( ArsC ) , was used . In this structure , a Cys29Trx-Cys89ArsC intermediate disulfide is formed by the nucleophilic attack of Cys29Trx on the exposed Cys82ArsC-Cys89ArsC in oxidized ArsC . With theoretical reactivity analysis , molecular dynamics simulations , and biochemical complex formation experiments with Cys-mutants , Trx mixed disulfide dissociation was studied . We observed that the conformational changes around the intermediate disulfide bring Cys32Trx in contact with Cys29Trx . Cys32Trx is activated for its nucleophilic attack by hydrogen bonds , and Cys32Trx is found to be more reactive than
The weight with which a specific outcome feature contributes to preference quantifies a person’s ‘taste’ for that feature . However , far from being fixed personality characteristics , tastes are plastic . They tend to align , for example , with those of others even if such conformity is not rewarded . We hypothesised that people can be uncertain about their tastes . Personal tastes are therefore uncertain beliefs . People can thus learn about them by considering evidence , such as the preferences of relevant others , and then performing Bayesian updating . If a person’s choice variability reflects uncertainty , as in random-preference models , then a signature of Bayesian updating is that the degree of taste change should correlate with that person’s choice variability . Temporal discounting coefficients are an important example of taste–for patience . These coefficients quantify impulsivity , have good psychometric properties and can change upon observing others’ choices . We examine
An important emerging question in the area of signal transduction is how information from different pathways becomes integrated into a highly coordinated response . In budding yeast , multiple pathways regulate filamentous growth , a complex differentiation response that occurs under specific environmental conditions . To identify new aspects of filamentous growth regulation , we used a novel screening approach ( called secretion profiling ) that measures release of the extracellular domain of Msb2p , the signaling mucin which functions at the head of the filamentous growth ( FG ) MAPK pathway . Secretion profiling of complementary genomic collections showed that many of the pathways that regulate filamentous growth ( RAS , RIM101 , OPI1 , and RTG ) were also required for FG pathway activation . This regulation sensitized the FG pathway to multiple stimuli and synchronized it to the global signaling network . Several of the regulators were required for MSB2 expression , which identifie
Changes in gene expression have been hypothesized to play an important role in the evolution of divergent morphologies . To test this hypothesis in a model system , we examined differences in fruiting body morphology of five filamentous fungi in the Sordariomycetes , culturing them in a common garden environment and profiling genome-wide gene expression at five developmental stages . We reconstructed ancestral gene expression phenotypes , identifying genes with the largest evolved increases in gene expression across development . Conducting knockouts and performing phenotypic analysis in two divergent species typically demonstrated altered fruiting body development in the species that had evolved increased expression . Our evolutionary approach to finding relevant genes proved far more efficient than other gene deletion studies targeting whole genomes or gene families . Combining gene expression measurements with knockout phenotypes facilitated the refinement of Bayesian networks of th
The schistosome egg represents an attractive developmental stage at which to target transgenes because of the high ratio of germ to somatic cells , because the transgene might be propagated and amplified by infecting snails with the miracidia hatched from treated eggs , and because eggs can be readily obtained from experimentally infected rodents . We investigated the utility of square wave electroporation to deliver transgenes and other macromolecules including fluorescent ( Cy3 ) short interference ( si ) RNA molecules , messenger RNAs , and virions into eggs of Schistosoma mansoni . First , eggs were incubated in Cy3-labeled siRNA with and without square wave electroporation . Cy3-signals were detected by fluorescence microscopy in eggs and miracidia hatched from treated eggs . Second , electroporation was employed to introduce mRNA encoding firefly luciferase into eggs . Luciferase activity was detected three hours later , whereas luciferase was not evident in eggs soaked in the mR
Large macromolecular assemblies are often important for biological processes in cells . Allosteric communications between different parts of these molecular machines play critical roles in cellular signaling . Although studies of the topology and fluctuation dynamics of coarse-grained residue networks can yield important insights , they do not provide characterization of the time-dependent dynamic behavior of these macromolecular assemblies . Here we develop a novel approach called Perturbation-based Markovian Transmission ( PMT ) model to study globally the dynamic responses of the macromolecular assemblies . By monitoring simultaneous responses of all residues ( >8 , 000 ) across many ( >6 ) decades of time spanning from the initial perturbation until reaching equilibrium using a Krylov subspace projection method , we show that this approach can yield rich information . With criteria based on quantitative measurements of relaxation half-time , flow amplitude change , and oscillation 
The physiological role of fungal galectins has remained elusive . Here , we show that feeding of a mushroom galectin , Coprinopsis cinerea CGL2 , to Caenorhabditis elegans inhibited development and reproduction and ultimately resulted in killing of this nematode . The lack of toxicity of a carbohydrate-binding defective CGL2 variant and the resistance of a C . elegans mutant defective in GDP-fucose biosynthesis suggested that CGL2-mediated nematotoxicity depends on the interaction between the galectin and a fucose-containing glycoconjugate . A screen for CGL2-resistant worm mutants identified this glycoconjugate as a Galβ1 , 4Fucα1 , 6 modification of C . elegans N-glycan cores . Analysis of N-glycan structures in wild type and CGL2-resistant nematodes confirmed this finding and allowed the identification of a novel putative glycosyltransferase required for the biosynthesis of this glycoepitope . The X-ray crystal structure of a complex between CGL2 and the Galβ1 , 4Fucα1 , 6GlcNAc tri
The existence of long-lived reservoirs of latently infected CD4+ T cells is the major barrier to curing HIV , and has been extensively studied in this light . However , the effect of these reservoirs on the evolutionary dynamics of the virus has received little attention . Here , we present a within-host quasispecies model that incorporates a long-lived reservoir , which we then nest into an epidemiological model of HIV dynamics . For biologically plausible parameter values , we find that the presence of a latent reservoir can severely delay evolutionary dynamics within a single host , with longer delays associated with larger relative reservoir sizes and/or homeostatic proliferation of cells within the reservoir . These delays can fundamentally change the dynamics of the virus at the epidemiological scale . In particular , the delay in within-host evolutionary dynamics can be sufficient for the virus to evolve intermediate viral loads consistent with maximising transmission , as is ob
Many viruses encode proteins whose major function is to evade or disable the host T cell response . Nevertheless , most viruses are readily detected by host T cells , and induce relatively strong T cell responses . Herein , we employ transgenic CD4+ and CD8+ T cells as sensors to evaluate in vitro and in vivo antigen presentation by coxsackievirus B3 ( CVB3 ) , and we show that this virus almost completely inhibits antigen presentation via the MHC class I pathway , thereby evading CD8+ T cell immunity . In contrast , the presentation of CVB3-encoded MHC class II epitopes is relatively unencumbered , and CVB3 induces in vivo CD4+ T cell responses that are , by several criteria , phenotypically normal . The cells display an effector phenotype and mature into multi-functional CVB3-specific memory CD4+ T cells that expand dramatically following challenge infection and rapidly differentiate into secondary effector cells capable of secreting multiple cytokines . Our findings have implication
Leprosy Type 1 reactions are a major cause of nerve damage and the preventable disability that results . Type 1 reactions are treated with oral corticosteroids and there are few data to support the optimal dose and duration of treatment . Type 1 reactions have a Th1 immune profile: cells in cutaneous and neural lesions expressing interferon-γ and interleukin-12 . Methylprednisolone has been used in other Th1 mediated diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis in an attempt to switch off the immune response and so we investigated the efficacy of three days of high dose ( 1 g ) intravenous methylprednisolone at the start of prednisolone therapy in leprosy Type 1 reactions and nerve function impairment . Forty-two individuals were randomised to receive methylprednisolone followed by oral prednisolone ( n = 20 ) or oral prednisolone alone ( n = 22 ) . There were no significant differences in the rate of adverse events or clinical improvement at the completion of the study . However individuals 
We , and others , have reported that in the HIV-negative settings , regulatory CD4+CD25highFoxP3+ T cells ( Treg ) exert differential effects on CD8 subsets , and maintain the memory / effector CD8+ T cells balance , at least in part through the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway . Here we investigated Treg–mediated effects on CD8 responses in chronic HIV infection . As compared to Treg from HIV negative controls ( Treg/HIV- ) , we show that Treg from HIV infected patients ( Treg/HIV+ ) did not significantly inhibit polyclonal autologous CD8+ T cell function indicating either a defect in the suppressive capacity of Treg/HIV+ or a lack of sensitivity of effector T cells in HIV infection . Results showed that Treg/HIV+ inhibited significantly the IFN-γ expression of autologous CD8+ T cells stimulated with recall CMV/EBV/Flu ( CEF ) antigens , but did not inhibit HIV-Gag–specific CD8+ T cells . In cross-over cultures , we show that Treg/HIV- inhibited significantly the differentiation of either CEF- or G
Lymphatic filarial parasites survive within the lymphatic vessels for years despite the complex immune environment surrounding them . Parasites possibly accomplish this by adopting various immunomodulatory strategies , which include release of glutathione-S-transferases ( GSTs ) that counteract the oxidative free radicals produced by the host . Since GSTs produced by parasites appear to be critical for the survival of parasites in the host , several studies evaluated the potential of parasite GSTs as vaccine candidates especially against schistosomiasis , fascioliasis and Seteria cervi . However , vaccine potential of GSTs of lymphatic filarial parasites has not been evaluated before . In the present study , the GST gene was cloned from the third stage larval ( L3 ) cDNA libraries of Wuchereria bancrofti , and recombinant GST ( WbGST ) was expressed and purified . Serum samples from individuals living in an endemic area were analyzed for their reactivity with rWbGST . These findings sh
CRISPR-Cas9 technologies have transformed genome-editing of experimental organisms and have immense therapeutic potential . Despite significant advances in our understanding of the CRISPR-Cas9 system , concerns remain over the potential for off-target effects . Recent studies have addressed these concerns using whole-genome sequencing ( WGS ) of gene-edited embryos or animals to search for de novo mutations ( DNMs ) , which may represent candidate changes introduced by poor editing fidelity . Critically , these studies used strain-matched , but not pedigree-matched controls and thus were unable to reliably distinguish generational or colony-related differences from true DNMs . Here we used a trio design and whole genome sequenced 8 parents and 19 embryos , where 10 of the embryos were mutagenised with well-characterised gRNAs targeting the coat colour Tyrosinase ( Tyr ) locus . Detailed analyses of these whole genome data allowed us to conclude that if CRISPR mutagenesis were causing S
The stomatal pores are located on the plant leaf epidermis and regulate CO2 uptake for photosynthesis and the loss of water by transpiration . Their stomatal aperture therefore affects photosynthesis , water use efficiency , and agricultural crop yields . Blue light , one of the environmental signals that regulates the plant stomatal aperture , is perceived by the blue/UV-A light-absorbing cryptochromes and phototropins . The signal transduction cascades that link the perception of light to the stomatal opening response are still largely unknown . Here , we report two new players , Hypersensitive to Red and Blue 1 ( HRB1 ) and Protein Phosphatase 7 ( PP7 ) , and their genetic and biochemical interactions in the control of stomatal aperture . Mutations in either HRB1 or PP7 lead to the misregulation of the stomatal aperture and reduce water loss under blue light . Both HRB1 and PP7 are expressed in the guard cells in response to a light-to-dark or dark-to-light transition . HRB1 interac
In eukaryotes , RNA polymerase II ( PolII ) dependent gene expression requires accessory factors termed transcriptional coregulators . One coregulator that universally contributes to PolII-dependent transcription is the Mediator , a multisubunit complex that is targeted by many transcriptional regulatory factors . For example , the Caenorhabditis elegans Mediator subunit MDT-15 confers the regulatory actions of the sterol response element binding protein SBP-1 and the nuclear hormone receptor NHR-49 on fatty acid metabolism . Here , we demonstrate that MDT-15 displays a broader spectrum of activities , and that it integrates metabolic responses to materials ingested by C . elegans . Depletion of MDT-15 protein or mutation of the mdt-15 gene abrogated induction of specific detoxification genes in response to certain xenobiotics or heavy metals , rendering these animals hypersensitive to toxin exposure . Intriguingly , MDT-15 appeared to selectively affect stress responses related to ing
An animal's ability to navigate through space rests on its ability to create a mental map of its environment . The hippocampus is the brain region centrally responsible for such maps , and it has been assumed to encode geometric information ( distances , angles ) . Given , however , that hippocampal output consists of patterns of spiking across many neurons , and downstream regions must be able to translate those patterns into accurate information about an animal's spatial environment , we hypothesized that 1 ) the temporal pattern of neuronal firing , particularly co-firing , is key to decoding spatial information , and 2 ) since co-firing implies spatial overlap of place fields , a map encoded by co-firing will be based on connectivity and adjacency , i . e . , it will be a topological map . Here we test this topological hypothesis with a simple model of hippocampal activity , varying three parameters ( firing rate , place field size , and number of neurons ) in computer simulations 
The current model of hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) production involves the assembly of virions on or near the surface of lipid droplets , envelopment at the ER in association with components of VLDL synthesis , and egress via the secretory pathway . However , the cellular requirements for and a mechanistic understanding of HCV secretion are incomplete at best . We combined an RNA interference ( RNAi ) analysis of host factors for infectious HCV secretion with the development of live cell imaging of HCV core trafficking to gain a detailed understanding of HCV egress . RNAi studies identified multiple components of the secretory pathway , including ER to Golgi trafficking , lipid and protein kinases that regulate budding from the trans-Golgi network ( TGN ) , VAMP1 vesicles and adaptor proteins , and the recycling endosome . Our results support a model wherein HCV is infectious upon envelopment at the ER and exits the cell via the secretory pathway . We next constructed infectious HCV with a
Imprinted genes are expressed from only one parental allele and heterozygous loss involving the expressed allele is sufficient to produce complete loss of protein expression . Genetic alterations are common in tumorigenesis but the role of imprinted genes in this process is not well understood . In earlier work we mutagenized mice heterozygous for the Neurofibromatosis I tumor suppressor gene ( NF1 ) to model radiotherapy-associated second malignant neoplasms that arise in irradiated NF1 patients . Expression analysis of tumor cell lines established from our mouse models identified Grb10 expression as widely absent . Grb10 is an imprinted gene and polymorphism analysis of cell lines and primary tumors demonstrates that the expressed allele is commonly lost in diverse Nf1 mutant tumors arising in our mouse models . We performed functional studies to test whether Grb10 restoration or loss alter fundamental features of the tumor growth . Restoring Grb10 in Nf1 mutant tumors decreases prol
Learning to predict threat from environmental cues is a fundamental skill in changing environments . This aversive learning process is exemplified by Pavlovian threat conditioning . Despite a plethora of studies on the neural mechanisms supporting the formation of associations between neutral and aversive events , our computational understanding of this process is fragmented . Importantly , different computational models give rise to different and partly opposing predictions for the trial-by-trial dynamics of learning , for example expressed in the activity of the autonomic nervous system ( ANS ) . Here , we investigate human ANS responses to conditioned stimuli during Pavlovian fear conditioning . To obtain precise , trial-by-trial , single-subject estimates of ANS responses , we build on a statistical framework for psychophysiological modelling . We then consider previously proposed non-probabilistic models , a simple probabilistic model , and non-learning models , as well as differe
The septation initiation network ( SIN ) , composed of a conserved SepH ( Cdc7p ) kinase cascade , plays an essential role in fungal cytokinesis/septation and conidiation for asexual reproduction , while the mitogen-activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) pathway depends on successive signaling cascade phosphorylation to sense and respond to stress and environmental factors . In this study , a SepH suppressor–PomA in the filamentous fungus A . nidulans is identified as a negative regulator of septation and conidiation such that the pomA mutant is able to cure defects of sepH1 in septation and conidiation and overexpression of pomA remarkably suppresses septation . Under the normal cultural condition , SepH positively regulates the phosphorylation of MAPK-HogA , while PomA reversely affects this process . In the absence of PbsB ( MAPKK , a putative upstream member of HogA ) , PomA and SepH are unable to affect the phosphorylation level of HogA . Under the osmostress condition , the induced ph
Tegumentary Leishmaniasis ( TL ) is endemic in Latin America , and Brazil contributes approximately 20 thousand cases per year . The pathogenesis of TL , however , is still not fully understood . Clinical manifestations vary from cutaneous leishmaniasis ( CL ) to more severe outcomes , such as disseminated leishmaniasis ( DL ) , mucosal leishmaniasis ( ML ) and diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis ( DCL ) . Many factors have been associated with the severity of the disease and the development of lesions . Recent studies have reported that the presence of Leishmania RNA virus 1 infecting Leishmania ( Leishmania RNA virus 1 , LRV1 ) is an important factor associated with the severity of ML in experimental animal models . In the present study , 156 patients who attended Rondonia's Hospital of Tropical Medicine with both leishmaniasis clinical diagnoses ( 109 CL; 38 ML; 5 CL+ML; 3 DL and 1 DCL ) and molecular diagnoses were investigated . The clinical diagnosis were confirmed by PCR by targetin
Streptococcus pneumoniae infection is a leading cause of bacterial pneumonia , sepsis and meningitis and is associated with high morbidity and mortality . Type I interferon ( IFN-I ) , whose contribution to antiviral and intracellular bacterial immunity is well established , is also elicited during pneumococcal infection , yet its functional significance is not well defined . Here , we show that IFN-I plays an important role in the host defense against pneumococci by counteracting the transmigration of bacteria from the lung to the blood . Mice that lack the type I interferon receptor ( Ifnar1−/− ) or mice that were treated with a neutralizing antibody against the type I interferon receptor , exhibited enhanced development of bacteremia following intranasal pneumococcal infection , while maintaining comparable bacterial numbers in the lung . In turn , treatment of mice with IFNβ or IFN-I-inducing synthetic double stranded RNA ( poly ( I:C ) ) , dramatically reduced the development of b
Neural networks with a single plastic layer employing reward modulated spike time dependent plasticity ( STDP ) are capable of learning simple foraging tasks . Here we demonstrate advanced pattern discrimination and continuous learning in a network of spiking neurons with multiple plastic layers . The network utilized both reward modulated and non-reward modulated STDP and implemented multiple mechanisms for homeostatic regulation of synaptic efficacy , including heterosynaptic plasticity , gain control , output balancing , activity normalization of rewarded STDP and hard limits on synaptic strength . We found that addition of a hidden layer of neurons employing non-rewarded STDP created neurons that responded to the specific combinations of inputs and thus performed basic classification of the input patterns . When combined with a following layer of neurons implementing rewarded STDP , the network was able to learn , despite the absence of labeled training data , discrimination betwee
During pregnancy , the ETS transcription factor ELF5 establishes the milk-secreting alveolar cell lineage by driving a cell fate decision of the mammary luminal progenitor cell . In breast cancer , ELF5 is a key transcriptional determinant of tumor subtype and has been implicated in the development of insensitivity to anti-estrogen therapy . In the mouse mammary tumor virus-Polyoma Middle T ( MMTV-PyMT ) model of luminal breast cancer , induction of ELF5 levels increased leukocyte infiltration , angiogenesis , and blood vessel permeability in primary tumors and greatly increased the size and number of lung metastasis . Myeloid-derived suppressor cells , a group of immature neutrophils recently identified as mediators of vasculogenesis and metastasis , were recruited to the tumor in response to ELF5 . Depletion of these cells using specific Ly6G antibodies prevented ELF5 from driving vasculogenesis and metastasis . Expression signatures in luminal A breast cancers indicated that increas
According to recent experimental evidence , the interaction between chromatin loops , which can be characterized by three factors—connection pattern , distance between regulatory elements , and communication form , play an important role in determining the level of cell-to-cell variability in gene expression . These quantitative experiments call for a corresponding modeling effect that addresses the question of how changes in these factors affect variability at the expression level in a systematic rather than case-by-case fashion . Here we make such an effort , based on a mechanic model that maps three fundamental patterns for two interacting DNA loops into a 4–state model of stochastic transcription . We first show that in contrast to side-by-side loops , nested loops enhance mRNA expression and reduce expression noise whereas alternating loops have just opposite effects . Then , we compare effects of facilitated tracking and direct looping on gene expression . We find that the former
Metabolic engineering increasingly depends upon RNA technology to customly rewire the metabolism to maximize production . To this end , pure riboregulators allow dynamic gene repression without the need of a potentially burdensome coexpressed protein like typical Hfq binding small RNAs and clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats technology . Despite this clear advantage , no clear general design principles are available to de novo develop repressing riboregulators , limiting the availability and the reliable development of these type of riboregulators . Here , to overcome this lack of knowledge on the functionality of repressing riboregulators , translation inhibiting RNAs are developed from scratch . These de novo developed riboregulators explore features related to thermodynamical and structural factors previously attributed to translation initiation modulation . In total , 12 structural and thermodynamic features were defined of which six features were retained aft
Transient associations among neurons are thought to underlie memory and behavior . However , little is known about how such associations occur or how they can be identified . Here we recorded ongoing local field potential ( LFP ) activity at multiple sites within the cortex of awake monkeys and organotypic cultures of cortex . We show that when the composite activity of a local neuronal group exceeds a threshold , its activity pattern , as reflected in the LFP , occurs without distortion at other cortex sites via fast synaptic transmission . These large-amplitude LFPs , which we call coherence potentials , extend up to hundreds of milliseconds and mark periods of loss-less spread of temporal and amplitude information much like action potentials at the single-cell level . However , coherence potentials have an additional degree of freedom in the diversity of their waveforms , which provides a high-dimensional parameter for encoding information and allows identification of particular ass
Nuclear size correlates with cell size , but the mechanism by which this scaling is achieved is not known . Here we screen fission yeast gene deletion mutants to identify essential factors involved in this process . Our screen has identified 25 essential factors that alter nuclear size , and our analysis has implicated RNA processing and LINC complexes in nuclear size control . This study has revealed lower and more extreme higher nuclear size phenotypes and has identified global cellular processes and specific structural nuclear components important for nuclear size control . 
Deep brain stimulation ( DBS ) is known to be an effective treatment for a variety of neurological disorders , including Parkinson’s disease and essential tremor ( ET ) . At present , it involves administering a train of pulses with constant frequency via electrodes implanted into the brain . New ‘closed-loop’ approaches involve delivering stimulation according to the ongoing symptoms or brain activity and have the potential to provide improvements in terms of efficiency , efficacy and reduction of side effects . The success of closed-loop DBS depends on being able to devise a stimulation strategy that minimizes oscillations in neural activity associated with symptoms of motor disorders . A useful stepping stone towards this is to construct a mathematical model , which can describe how the brain oscillations should change when stimulation is applied at a particular state of the system . Our work focuses on the use of coupled oscillators to represent neurons in areas generating patholog
Schistosomiasis remains one of the most common endemic parasitic diseases affecting over 230 million people worlwide . Schistosoma mansoni is the main species causing intestinal and hepatic schistosomiasis and the fresh water pulmonate snails of the genus Biomphalaria are best known for their role as intermediate hosts of the parasite . The development of new molecular monitoring assays for large-scale screening of snails from transmission sites to detect the presence of schistosomes is an important point to consider for snail control interventions related to schistosomiasis elimination . Our work was focussed on developing and evaluating a new LAMP assay combined with a simple DNA extraction method to detect S . mansoni in experimentally infected snails as a diagnostic tool for field conditions . A LAMP assay using a set of six primers targeting a sequence of S . mansoni ribosomal intergenic spacer 28S-18S rRNA was designed . The detection limit of the LAMP assay was 0 . 1 fg of S . m
Reported as a public health problem since the 1960s in Sri Lanka , dengue has become a high priority disease for public health authorities . The Ministry of Health is responsible for controlling dengue and other disease outbreaks and associated health care . The involvement of large numbers of public health staff in dengue control activities year-round and the provision of free medical care to dengue patients at secondary care hospitals place a formidable financial burden on the public health sector . We estimated the public sector costs of dengue control activities and the direct costs of hospitalizations in Colombo , the most heavily urbanized district in Sri Lanka , during the epidemic year of 2012 from the Ministry of Health’s perspective . The financial costs borne by public health agencies and hospitals are collected using cost extraction tools designed specifically for the study and analysed retrospectively using a combination of activity-based and gross costing approaches . The
The relative contributions to modern European populations of Paleolithic hunter-gatherers and Neolithic farmers from the Near East have been intensely debated . Haplogroup R1b1b2 ( R-M269 ) is the commonest European Y-chromosomal lineage , increasing in frequency from east to west , and carried by 110 million European men . Previous studies suggested a Paleolithic origin , but here we show that the geographical distribution of its microsatellite diversity is best explained by spread from a single source in the Near East via Anatolia during the Neolithic . Taken with evidence on the origins of other haplogroups , this indicates that most European Y chromosomes originate in the Neolithic expansion . This reinterpretation makes Europe a prime example of how technological and cultural change is linked with the expansion of a Y-chromosomal lineage , and the contrast of this pattern with that shown by maternally inherited mitochondrial DNA suggests a unique role for males in the transition .
It has recently been suggested that movement variability directly increases the speed of motor learning . Here we use computational modeling of motor adaptation to show that variability can have a broad range of effects on learning , both negative and positive . Experimentally , we also find contributing and decelerating effects . Lastly , through a meta-analysis of published papers , we verify that across a wide range of experiments , movement variability has no statistical relation with learning rate . While motor learning is a complex process that can be modeled , further research is needed to understand the relative importance of the involved factors . 
NF-κB plays a vital role in cellular immune and inflammatory response , survival , and proliferation by regulating the transcription of various genes involved in these processes . To activate transcription , RelA ( a prominent NF-κB family member ) interacts with transcriptional co-activators like CREB-binding protein ( CBP ) and its paralog p300 in addition to its cognate κB sites on the promoter/enhancer regions of DNA . The RelA:CBP/p300 complex is comprised of two components—first , DNA binding domain of RelA interacts with the KIX domain of CBP/p300 , and second , the transcriptional activation domain ( TAD ) of RelA binds to the TAZ1 domain of CBP/p300 . A phosphorylation event of a well-conserved RelA ( Ser276 ) is prerequisite for the former interaction to occur and is considered a decisive factor for the overall RelA:CBP/p300 interaction . The role of the latter interaction in the transcription of RelA-activated genes remains unclear . Here we provide the solution structure of
Gene set analysis methods , which consider predefined groups of genes in the analysis of genomic data , have been successfully applied for analyzing gene expression data in cross-sectional studies . The time-course gene set analysis ( TcGSA ) introduced here is an extension of gene set analysis to longitudinal data . The proposed method relies on random effects modeling with maximum likelihood estimates . It allows to use all available repeated measurements while dealing with unbalanced data due to missing at random ( MAR ) measurements . TcGSA is a hypothesis driven method that identifies a priori defined gene sets with significant expression variations over time , taking into account the potential heterogeneity of expression within gene sets . When biological conditions are compared , the method indicates if the time patterns of gene sets significantly differ according to these conditions . The interest of the method is illustrated by its application to two real life datasets: an HIV
Current understanding of the spatial epidemiology and geographical distribution of Plasmodium vivax is far less developed than that for P . falciparum , representing a barrier to rational strategies for control and elimination . Here we present the first systematic effort to map the global endemicity of this hitherto neglected parasite . We first updated to the year 2010 our earlier estimate of the geographical limits of P . vivax transmission . Within areas of stable transmission , an assembly of 9 , 970 geopositioned P . vivax parasite rate ( PvPR ) surveys collected from 1985 to 2010 were used with a spatiotemporal Bayesian model-based geostatistical approach to estimate endemicity age-standardised to the 1–99 year age range ( PvPR1–99 ) within every 5×5 km resolution grid square . The model incorporated data on Duffy negative phenotype frequency to suppress endemicity predictions , particularly in Africa . Endemicity was predicted within a relatively narrow range throughout the end
Staphylococcus aureus expresses a number of cell wall-anchored proteins that mediate adhesion and invasion of host cells and tissues and promote immune evasion , consequently contributing to the virulence of this organism . The cell wall-anchored protein clumping factor B ( ClfB ) has previously been shown to facilitate S . aureus nasal colonization through high affinity interactions with the cornified envelope in the anterior nares . However , the role of ClfB during skin and soft tissue infection ( SSTI ) has never been investigated . This study reveals a novel role for ClfB during SSTIs . ClfB is crucial in determining the abscess structure and bacterial burden early in infection and this is dependent upon a specific interaction with the ligand loricrin which is expressed within the abscess tissue . Targeting ClfB using a model vaccine that induced both protective humoral and cellular responses , leads to protection during S . aureus skin infection . This study therefore identifies 
To achieve the 90-90-90 goals set by UNAIDS , the number of new HIV infections needs to decrease to approximately 500 , 000 by 2020 . One of the ‘five pillars’ to achieve this goal is pre-exposure prophylaxis ( PrEP ) . Truvada ( emtricitabine-tenofovir ) is currently the only medication approved for PrEP . Despite its advantages , Truvada is costly and requires individuals to adhere to the once-daily regimen . To improve PrEP , many next-generation regimen , including long-acting formulations , are currently investigated . However , pre-clinical testing may not guide candidate selection , since it often fails to translate into clinical efficacy . On the other hand , quantifying prophylactic efficacy in the clinic is ethically problematic and requires to conduct long ( years ) and large ( N>1000 individuals ) trials , precluding systematic evaluation of candidates and deployment strategies . To prioritize- and help design PrEP regimen , tools are urgently needed that integrate pharmaco
Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) induces autophagy to enhance its replication . However , how HCV regulates the autophagic pathway remains largely unclear . In this report , we demonstrated that HCV infection could induce the expression of Rubicon and UVRAG , which inhibited and stimulated the maturation of autophagosomes , respectively . The induction of Rubicon by HCV was prompt whereas the induction of UVRAG was delayed , resulting in the accumulation of autophagosomes in the early time points of viral infection . The role of Rubicon in inhibiting the maturation of autophagosomes in HCV-infected cells was confirmed by siRNA knockdown and the over-expression of Rubicon , which enhanced and suppressed the maturation of autophagosomes , respectively . Rubicon played a positive role in HCV replication , as the suppression of its expression reduced HCV replication and its over-expression enhanced HCV replication . In contrast , the over-expression of UVRAG facilitated the maturation of autophag
Cyclin Y-like 1 ( Ccnyl1 ) is a newly-identified member of the cyclin family and is highly similar in protein sequences to Cyclin Y ( Ccny ) . However , the function of Ccnyl1 is poorly characterized in any organism . Here we found that Ccnyl1 was most abundantly expressed in the testis of mice and was about seven times higher than the level of Ccny . Male Ccnyl1-/- mice were infertile , whereas both male and female Ccny-/- mice displayed normal fertility . These results suggest that Ccnyl1 , but not Ccny , is indispensable for male fertility . Spermatozoa obtained from Ccnyl1-/- mice displayed significantly impaired motility , and represented a thinned annulus region and/or a bent head . We found that the protein , but not the mRNA , level of cyclin-dependent kinase 16 ( CDK16 ) was decreased in the testis of Ccnyl1-/- mice . Further study demonstrated that CCNYL1 interacted with CDK16 and this interaction mutually increased the stability of these two proteins . Moreover , the interac
Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli ( EHEC ) strains cause diarrhea and hemolytic uremic syndrome resulting from toxin-mediated microvascular endothelial injury . EHEC hemolysin ( EHEC-Hly ) , a member of the RTX ( repeats-in-toxin ) family , is an EHEC virulence factor of increasingly recognized importance . The toxin exists as free EHEC-Hly and as EHEC-Hly associated with outer membrane vesicles ( OMVs ) released by EHEC during growth . Whereas the free toxin is lytic towards human endothelium , the biological effects of the OMV-associated EHEC-Hly on microvascular endothelial and intestinal epithelial cells , which are the major targets during EHEC infection , are unknown . Using microscopic , biochemical , flow cytometry and functional analyses of human brain microvascular endothelial cells ( HBMEC ) and Caco-2 cells we demonstrate that OMV-associated EHEC-Hly does not lyse the target cells but triggers their apoptosis . The OMV-associated toxin is internalized by HBMEC and Caco-2 c
Transcript elongation by RNA polymerase II ( RNAPII ) is accompanied by conserved patterns of histone modification . Whereas histone modifications have established roles in transcription initiation , their functions during elongation are not understood . Mono-ubiquitylation of histone H2B ( H2Bub1 ) plays a key role in coordinating co-transcriptional histone modification by promoting site-specific methylation of histone H3 . H2Bub1 also regulates gene expression through an unidentified , methylation-independent mechanism . Here we reveal bidirectional communication between H2Bub1 and Cdk9 , the ortholog of metazoan positive transcription elongation factor b ( P-TEFb ) , in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe . Chemical and classical genetic analyses indicate that lowering Cdk9 activity or preventing phosphorylation of its substrate , the transcription processivity factor Spt5 , reduces H2Bub1 in vivo . Conversely , mutations in the H2Bub1 pathway impair Cdk9 recruitment to chro
Yellow fever virus ( YFV ) remains the cause of severe morbidity and mortality in South America and Africa . To determine the evolutionary history of this important reemerging pathogen , we performed a phylogenetic analysis of the largest YFV data set compiled to date , representing the prM/E gene region from 133 viral isolates sampled from 22 countries over a period of 76 years . We estimate that the currently circulating strains of YFV arose in Africa within the last 1 , 500 years and emerged in the Americas following the slave trade approximately 300–400 years ago . These viruses then spread westwards across the continent and persist there to this day in the jungles of South America . We therefore illustrate how gene sequence data can be used to test hypotheses of viral dispersal and demographics , and document the role of human migration in the spread of infectious disease . 
Herein , we studied a virulent isolate of the leading bacterial pathogen Streptococcus pneumoniae in an infant mouse model of colonization , disease and transmission , both with and without influenza A ( IAV ) co-infection . To identify vulnerable points in the multiple steps involved in pneumococcal pathogenesis , this model was utilized for a comprehensive analysis of population bottlenecks . Our findings reveal that in the setting of IAV co-infection the organism must pass through single cell bottlenecks during bloodstream invasion from the nasopharynx within the host and in transmission between hosts . Passage through these bottlenecks was not associated with genetic adaptation by the pathogen . The bottleneck in transmission occurred between bacterial exit from one host and establishment in another explaining why the number of shed organisms in secretions is critical to overcoming it . These observations demonstrate how viral infection , and TLR-dependent innate immune responses i
Phlebotomus orientalis is a vector of Leishmania donovani , the causative agent of life threatening visceral leishmaniasis spread in Eastern Africa . During blood-feeding , sand fly females salivate into the skin of the host . Sand fly saliva contains a large variety of proteins , some of which elicit specific antibody responses in the bitten hosts . To evaluate the exposure to sand fly bites in human populations from disease endemic areas , we tested the antibody reactions of volunteers' sera against recombinant P . orientalis salivary antigens . Recombinant proteins derived from sequence data on P . orientalis secreted salivary proteins , were produced using either bacterial ( five proteins ) or mammalian ( four proteins ) expression systems and tested as antigens applicable for detection of anti-P . orientalis IgG in human sera . Using these recombinant proteins , human sera from Sudan and Ethiopia , countries endemic for visceral leishmaniasis , were screened by ELISA and immunoblo
IncC conjugative plasmids and Salmonella genomic island 1 ( SGI1 ) and relatives are frequently associated with multidrug resistance of clinical isolates of pathogenic Enterobacteriaceae . SGI1 is specifically mobilized in trans by IncA and IncC plasmids ( commonly referred to as A/C plasmids ) following its excision from the chromosome , an event triggered by the transcriptional activator complex AcaCD encoded by these helper plasmids . Although SGI1 is not self-transmissible , it carries three genes , traNS , traHS and traGS , coding for distant homologs of the predicted mating pore subunits TraNC , TraHC and TraGC , respectively , encoded by A/C plasmids . Here we investigated the regulation of traNS and traHGS and the role of these three genes in the transmissibility of SGI1 . Transcriptional fusion of the promoter sequences of traNS and traHGS to the reporter gene lacZ confirmed that expression of these genes is inducible by AcaCD . Mating experiments using combinations of deletio
The Saccharomyces cerevisiae polo-like kinase Cdc5 promotes adaptation to the DNA damage checkpoint , in addition to its numerous roles in mitotic progression . The process of adaptation occurs when cells are presented with persistent or irreparable DNA damage and escape the cell-cycle arrest imposed by the DNA damage checkpoint . However , the precise mechanism of adaptation remains unknown . We report here that CDC5 is dose-dependent for adaptation and that its overexpression promotes faster adaptation , indicating that high levels of Cdc5 modulate the ability of the checkpoint to inhibit the downstream cell-cycle machinery . To pinpoint the step in the checkpoint pathway at which Cdc5 acts , we overexpressed CDC5 from the GAL1 promoter in damaged cells and examined key steps in checkpoint activation individually . Cdc5 overproduction appeared to have little effect on the early steps leading to Rad53 activation . The checkpoint sensors , Ddc1 ( a member of the 9-1-1 complex ) and Ddc
Many pathological conditions , such as seizures , stroke , and spreading depression , are associated with substantial changes in ion concentrations in the extracellular space ( ECS ) of the brain . An understanding of the mechanisms that govern ECS concentration dynamics may be a prerequisite for understanding such pathologies . To estimate the transport of ions due to electrodiffusive effects , one must keep track of both the ion concentrations and the electric potential simultaneously in the relevant regions of the brain . Although this is currently unfeasible experimentally , it is in principle achievable with computational models based on biophysical principles and constraints . Previous computational models of extracellular ion-concentration dynamics have required extensive computing power , and therefore have been limited to either phenomena on very small spatiotemporal scales ( micrometers and milliseconds ) , or simplified and idealized 1-dimensional ( 1-D ) transport processes
A budget proposal to stop the U . S . Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) funding in surveillance and research for mosquito-borne diseases such as dengue and West Nile virus has the potential to leave the country ill-prepared to handle new emerging diseases and manage existing ones . In order to demonstrate the consequences of such a measure , if implemented , we evaluated the impact of delayed control responses to dengue epidemics ( a likely scenario emerging from the proposed CDC budget cut ) in an economically developed urban environment . We used a mathematical model to generate hypothetical scenarios of delayed response to a dengue introduction ( a consequence of halted mosquito surveillance ) in the City of Cairns , Queensland , Australia . We then coupled the results of such a model with mosquito surveillance and case management costs to estimate the cumulative costs of each response scenario . Our study shows that halting mosquito surveillance can increase the ma
Dengue is an emerging infectious disease of global significance . Suspected dengue , especially in children in Nicaragua’s heavily-urbanized capital of Managua , has been well documented , but unsuspected dengue among children and adults with undifferentitated fever has not . To prospectively study dengue in semi-urban and rural western Nicaragua , we obtained epidemiologic and clinical data as well as acute and convalescent sera ( 2 to 4 weeks after onset of illness ) from a convenience sample ( enrollment Monday to Saturday daytime to early evening ) of consecutively enrolled patients ( n = 740 ) aged ≥ 1 years presenting with acute febrile illness . We tested paired sera for dengue IgG and IgM and serotyped dengue virus using reverse transcriptase-PCR . Among 740 febrile patients enrolled , 90% had paired sera . We found 470 ( 63 . 5% ) were seropositive for dengue at enrollment . The dengue seroprevalance increased with age and reached >90% in people over the age of 20 years . We i
Plant-parasitic nematodes are destructive pests causing losses of billions of dollars annually . An effective plant defence against pathogens relies on the recognition of pathogen-associated molecular patterns ( PAMPs ) by surface-localised receptors leading to the activation of PAMP-triggered immunity ( PTI ) . Extensive studies have been conducted to characterise the role of PTI in various models of plant-pathogen interactions . However , far less is known about the role of PTI in roots in general and in plant-nematode interactions in particular . Here we show that nematode-derived proteinaceous elicitor/s is/are capable of inducing PTI in Arabidopsis in a manner dependent on the common immune co-receptor BAK1 . Consistent with the role played by BAK1 , we identified a leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase , termed NILR1 that is specifically regulated upon infection by nematodes . We show that NILR1 is essential for PTI responses initiated by nematodes and nilr1 loss-of-function m
Miltefosine , an anti-cancer drug that has been successfully repositioned for treatment of Leishmania infections , has recently also shown promising effects against Schistosoma spp targeting all life cycle stages of the parasite . The current study examined the effect of treating Schistosoma mansoni adult worms with miltefosine on exposure of worm surface antigens in vitro . In an indirect immunofluorescence assay , rabbit anti-S . mansoni adult worm homogenate and anti-S . mansoni infection antisera gave strong immunofluorescence of the S . mansoni adult worm surface after treatment with miltefosine , the latter antiserum having previously been shown to synergistically enhance the schistosomicidal activity of praziquantel . Rabbit antibodies that recognised surface antigens exposed on miltefosine-treated worms were recovered by elution off the worm surface in low pH buffer and were used in a western immunoblotting assay to identify antigenic targets in a homogenate extract of adult wo
In host-pathogen interactions , the struggle for iron may have major consequences on the outcome of the disease . To overcome the low solubility and bio-availability of iron , bacteria have evolved multiple systems to acquire iron from various sources such as heme , hemoglobin and ferritin . The molecular basis of iron acquisition from heme and hemoglobin have been extensively studied; however , very little is known about iron acquisition from host ferritin , a 24-mer nanocage protein able to store thousands of iron atoms within its cavity . In the human opportunistic pathogen Bacillus cereus , a surface protein named IlsA ( Iron-regulated leucine rich surface protein type A ) binds heme , hemoglobin and ferritin in vitro and is involved in virulence . Here , we demonstrate that IlsA acts as a ferritin receptor causing ferritin aggregation on the bacterial surface . Isothermal titration calorimetry data indicate that IlsA binds several types of ferritins through direct interaction with
The principal pacemaker of the circadian clock of the cyanobacterium S . elongatus is a protein phosphorylation cycle consisting of three proteins , KaiA , KaiB and KaiC . KaiC forms a homohexamer , with each monomer consisting of two domains , CI and CII . Both domains can bind and hydrolyze ATP , but only the CII domain can be phosphorylated , at two residues , in a well-defined sequence . While this system has been studied extensively , how the clock is driven thermodynamically has remained elusive . Inspired by recent experimental observations and building on ideas from previous mathematical models , we present a new , thermodynamically consistent , statistical-mechanical model of the clock . At its heart are two main ideas: i ) ATP hydrolysis in the CI domain provides the thermodynamic driving force for the clock , switching KaiC between an active conformational state in which its phosphorylation level tends to rise and an inactive one in which it tends to fall; ii ) phosphorylati
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) suppresses innate immune signaling to establish persistent infection . Although HBV is a DNA virus , its pre-genomic RNA ( pgRNA ) can be sensed by RIG-I and activates MAVS to mediate interferon ( IFN ) λ synthesis . Despite of the activation of RIG-I-MAVS axis by pgRNA , the underlying mechanism explaining how HBV infection fails to induce interferon-αβ ( IFN ) synthesis remained uncharacterized . We demonstrate that HBV induced parkin is able to recruit the linear ubiquitin assembly complex ( LUBAC ) to mitochondria and abrogates IFN β synthesis . Parkin interacts with MAVS , accumulates unanchored linear polyubiquitin chains on MAVS via LUBAC , to disrupt MAVS signalosome and attenuate IRF3 activation . This study highlights the novel role of parkin in antiviral signaling which involves LUBAC being recruited to the mitochondria . These results provide avenues of investigations on the role of mitochondrial dynamics in innate immunity . 
T cell responses to enteric bacteria are important in inflammatory bowel disease . I2 , encoded by the pfiT gene of Pseudomonas fluorescens , is a T-cell superantigen associated with human Crohn's disease . Here we report the crystal structure of pfiT at 1 . 7Å resolution and provide a functional analysis of the interaction of pfiT and its homolog , PA2885 , with human class II MHC . Both pfiT and PA2885 bound to mammalian cells and stimulated the proliferation of human lymphocytes . This binding was greatly inhibited by anti-class II MHC HLA-DR antibodies , and to a lesser extent , by anti HLA-DQ and DP antibodies , indicating that the binding was class II MHC-specific . GST-pfiT efficiently precipitated both endogenous and in vitro purified recombinant HLA-DR1 molecules , indicating that pfiT directly interacted with HLA-DR1 . Competition studies revealed that pfiT and the superantigen Mycoplasma arthritidis mitogen ( MAM ) competed for binding to HLA-DR , indicating that their bindi
Nanog is a principal pluripotency regulator exhibiting a disperse distribution within stem cell populations in vivo and in vitro . Increasing evidence points to a functional role of Nanog heterogeneity on stem cell fate decisions . Allelic control of Nanog gene expression was reported recently in mouse embryonic stem cells . To better understand how this mode of regulation influences the observed heterogeneity of NANOG in stem cell populations , we assembled a multiscale stochastic population balance equation framework . In addition to allelic control , gene expression noise and random partitioning at cell division were considered . As a result of allelic Nanog expression , the distribution of Nanog exhibited three distinct states but when combined with transcriptional noise the profile became bimodal . Regardless of their allelic expression pattern , initially uniform populations of stem cells gave rise to the same Nanog heterogeneity within ten cell cycles . Depletion of NANOG conten
The costs and benefits of protein expression are balanced through evolution . Expression of un-utilized protein ( that have no benefits in the current environment ) incurs a quantifiable fitness costs on cellular growth rates; however , the magnitude and variability of un-utilized protein expression in natural settings is unknown , largely due to the challenge in determining environment-specific proteome utilization . We address this challenge using absolute and global proteomics data combined with a recently developed genome-scale model of Escherichia coli that computes the environment-specific cost and utility of the proteome on a per gene basis . We show that nearly half of the proteome mass is unused in certain environments and accounting for the cost of this unused protein expression explains >95% of the variance in growth rates of Escherichia coli across 16 distinct environments . Furthermore , reduction in unused protein expression is shown to be a common mechanism to increase c
Recent large genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) have identified multiple loci which harbor genetic variants associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2D ) , many of which encode proteins not previously suspected to be involved in the pathogenesis of T2D . Most GWAS for T2D have focused on populations of European descent , and GWAS conducted in other populations with different ancestry offer a unique opportunity to study the genetic architecture of T2D . We performed genome-wide association scans for T2D in 3 , 955 Chinese ( 2 , 010 cases , 1 , 945 controls ) , 2 , 034 Malays ( 794 cases , 1 , 240 controls ) , and 2 , 146 Asian Indians ( 977 cases , 1 , 169 controls ) . In addition to the search for novel variants implicated in T2D , these multi-ethnic cohorts serve to assess the transferability and relevance of the previous findings from European descent populations in the three major ethnic populations of Asia , comprising half of the world's population . Of the SNPs associate
The nuclear division takes place in the daughter cell in the basidiomycetous budding yeast Cryptococcus neoformans . Unclustered kinetochores gradually cluster and the nucleus moves to the daughter bud as cells enter mitosis . Here , we show that the evolutionarily conserved Aurora B kinase Ipl1 localizes to the nucleus upon the breakdown of the nuclear envelope during mitosis in C . neoformans . Ipl1 is shown to be required for timely breakdown of the nuclear envelope as well . Ipl1 is essential for viability and regulates structural integrity of microtubules . The compromised stability of cytoplasmic microtubules upon Ipl1 depletion results in a significant delay in kinetochore clustering and nuclear migration . By generating an in silico model of mitosis , we previously proposed that cytoplasmic microtubules and cortical dyneins promote atypical nuclear division in C . neoformans . Improving the previous in silico model by introducing additional parameters , here we predict that an 
Synonymous mutations continue to be filtered out from most large-scale cancer genome studies , but several lines of evidence suggest they can play driver roles in neoplastic disease . We investigated a case of an aggressive , apparently sporadic medullary thyroid carcinoma ( MTC ) harboring a somatic RET p . Cys634Arg mutation ( a known MTC driver ) . A germ-line RET substitution ( p . Cys630= ) had also been found but was considered clinically irrelevant because of its synonymous nature . Next generation sequencing ( NGS ) of the tumor tissues revealed that the RET mutations were in cis . There was no evidence of gene amplification . Expression analysis found an increase of RET transcript in p . Cys630=;p . Cys634Arg patient compared with that found in 7 MTCs harboring p . Cys634 mutations . Minigene expression assays demonstrated that the presence of the synonymous RET mutation was sufficient to explain the increased RET mRNA level . In silico analyses and RNA immunoprecipitation exp
Metagenomic sequencing of patient samples is a very promising method for the diagnosis of human infections . Sequencing has the ability to capture all the DNA or RNA from pathogenic organisms in a human sample . However , complete and accurate characterization of the sequence , including identification of any pathogens , depends on the availability and quality of genomes for comparison . Thousands of genomes are now available , and as these numbers grow , the power of metagenomic sequencing for diagnosis should increase . However , recent studies have exposed the presence of contamination in published genomes , which when used for diagnosis increases the risk of falsely identifying the wrong pathogen . To address this problem , we have developed a bioinformatics system for eliminating contamination as well as low-complexity genomic sequences in the draft genomes of eukaryotic pathogens . We applied this software to identify and remove human , bacterial , archaeal , and viral sequences 
While Human African Trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) is in decline on the continent of Africa , the disease still remains a major health problem in Uganda . There are recurrent sporadic outbreaks in the traditionally endemic areas in south-east Uganda , and continued spread to new unaffected areas in central Uganda . We evaluated the evolutionary dynamics underpinning the origin of new foci and the impact of host species on parasite genetic diversity in Uganda . We genotyped 269 Trypanosoma brucei isolates collected from different regions in Uganda and southwestern Kenya at 17 microsatellite loci , and checked for the presence of the SRA gene that confers human infectivity to T . b . rhodesiense . Both Bayesian clustering methods and Discriminant Analysis of Principal Components partition Trypanosoma brucei isolates obtained from Uganda and southwestern Kenya into three distinct genetic clusters . Clusters 1 and 3 include isolates from central and southern Uganda , while cluster 2 contains most
Thioredoxin-interacting protein ( TXNIP ) has multiple functions , including tumor suppression and involvement in cell proliferation and apoptosis . However , its role in the inflammatory process remains unclear . In this report , we demonstrate that Txnip−/− mice are significantly more susceptible to lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -induced endotoxic shock . In response to LPS , Txnip−/− macrophages produced significantly higher levels of nitric oxide ( NO ) and inducible nitric oxide synthase ( iNOS ) , and an iNOS inhibitor rescued Txnip−/− mice from endotoxic shock-induced death , demonstrating that NO is a major factor in TXNIP-mediated endotoxic shock . This susceptibility phenotype of Txnip−/− mice occurred despite reduced IL-1β secretion due to increased S-nitrosylation of NLRP3 compared to wild-type controls . Taken together , these data demonstrate that TXNIP is a novel molecule that links NO synthesis and NLRP3 inflammasome activation during endotoxic shock . 
Germline mutations in DNA repair genes are linked to tumor progression . Furthermore , failure in either activating a DNA damage checkpoint or repairing programmed meiotic double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) can impair chromosome segregation . Therefore , understanding the molecular basis for DNA damage response ( DDR ) and DSB repair ( DSBR ) within the germline is highly important . Here we define ZTF-8 , a previously uncharacterized protein conserved from worms to humans , as a novel factor involved in the repair of both mitotic and meiotic DSBs as well as in meiotic DNA damage checkpoint activation in the C . elegans germline . ztf-8 mutants exhibit specific sensitivity to γ-irradiation and hydroxyurea , mitotic nuclear arrest at S-phase accompanied by activation of the ATL-1 and CHK-1 DNA damage checkpoint kinases , as well as accumulation of both mitotic and meiotic recombination intermediates , indicating that ZTF-8 functions in DSBR . However , impaired meiotic DSBR progression parti
During tissue development , multipotent progenitors differentiate into specific cell types in characteristic spatial and temporal patterns . We addressed the mechanism linking progenitor identity and differentiation rate in the neural tube , where motor neuron ( MN ) progenitors differentiate more rapidly than other progenitors . Using single cell transcriptomics , we defined the transcriptional changes associated with the transition of neural progenitors into MNs . Reconstruction of gene expression dynamics from these data indicate a pivotal role for the MN determinant Olig2 just prior to MN differentiation . Olig2 represses expression of the Notch signaling pathway effectors Hes1 and Hes5 . Olig2 repression of Hes5 appears to be direct , via a conserved regulatory element within the Hes5 locus that restricts expression from MN progenitors . These findings reveal a tight coupling between the regulatory networks that control patterning and neuronal differentiation and demonstrate how O
In mouse models of influenza , T cells can confer broad protection against multiple viral subtypes when antibodies raised against a single subtype fail to do so . However , the role of T cells in protecting humans against influenza remains unclear . Here we employ a translational nonhuman primate model to show that cross-reactive T cell responses play an important role in early clearance of infection with 2009 pandemic H1N1 influenza virus ( H1N1pdm ) . To “prime” cellular immunity , we first infected 5 rhesus macaques with a seasonal human H1N1 isolate . These animals made detectable cellular and antibody responses against the seasonal H1N1 isolate but had no neutralizing antibodies against H1N1pdm . Four months later , we challenged the 5 “primed” animals and 7 naive controls with H1N1pdm . In naive animals , CD8+ T cells with an activated phenotype ( Ki-67+ CD38+ ) appeared in blood and lung 5–7 days post inoculation ( p . i . ) with H1N1pdm and reached peak magnitude 7–10 days p . 
Q fever is the most widespread zoonosis , and domestic animals are the most common sources of transmission . It is not only difficult to distinguish from other febrile diseases because of the lack of specific clinical manifestations in humans , but it is also difficult to identify the disease in C . burnetii-carrying animals because of the lack of identifiable features . Conventional serodiagnosis requires sera from the acute and convalescent stages of infection , which are unavailable at early diagnosis . Nested PCR and real-time PCR require equipment . In this study , we developed a Loop-Mediated Isothermal Amplification ( LAMP ) assay to identify C . burnetii rapidly and sensitively . A universal LAMP primer set was designed to detect the repeated sequence IS1111a of the htpAB gene of C . burnetii using PrimerExplorer V4 software . The sensitivity of the LAMP assay was evaluated using known quantities of recombined reference plasmids containing the targeted genes . The specificity o
Cancers often display gene expression profiles resembling those of undifferentiated cells . The mechanisms controlling these expression programs have yet to be identified . Exploring transcriptional enhancers throughout hematopoietic cell development and derived cancers , we uncovered a novel class of regulatory epigenetic mutations . These epimutations are particularly enriched in a group of enhancers , designated ES-specific enhancers ( ESSEs ) of the hematopoietic cell lineage . We found that hematopoietic ESSEs are prone to DNA methylation changes , indicative of their chromatin activity states . Strikingly , ESSE methylation is associated with gene transcriptional activity in cancer . Methylated ESSEs are hypermethylated in cancer relative to normal somatic cells and co-localized with silenced genes , whereas unmethylated ESSEs tend to be hypomethylated in cancer and associated with reactivated genes . Constitutive or hematopoietic stem cell-specific enhancers do not show these tr
Natural selection drives populations towards higher fitness , but crossing fitness valleys or plateaus may facilitate progress up a rugged fitness landscape involving epistasis . We investigate quantitatively the effect of subdividing an asexual population on the time it takes to cross a fitness valley or plateau . We focus on a generic and minimal model that includes only population subdivision into equivalent demes connected by global migration , and does not require significant size changes of the demes , environmental heterogeneity or specific geographic structure . We determine the optimal speedup of valley or plateau crossing that can be gained by subdivision , if the process is driven by the deme that crosses fastest . We show that isolated demes have to be in the sequential fixation regime for subdivision to significantly accelerate crossing . Using Markov chain theory , we obtain analytical expressions for the conditions under which optimal speedup is achieved: valley or plate
We describe the first comprehensive analysis of the midgut metabolome of Aedes aegypti , the primary mosquito vector for arboviruses such as dengue , Zika , chikungunya and yellow fever viruses . Transmission of these viruses depends on their ability to infect , replicate and disseminate from several tissues in the mosquito vector . The metabolic environments within these tissues play crucial roles in these processes . Since these viruses are enveloped , viral replication , assembly and release occur on cellular membranes primed through the manipulation of host metabolism . Interference with this virus infection-induced metabolic environment is detrimental to viral replication in human and mosquito cell culture models . Here we present the first insight into the metabolic environment induced during arbovirus replication in Aedes aegypti . Using high-resolution mass spectrometry , we have analyzed the temporal metabolic perturbations that occur following dengue virus infection of the mi
Elucidating the underlying mechanisms of fatal cardiac arrhythmias requires a tight integration of electrophysiological experiments , models , and theory . Existing models of transmembrane action potential ( AP ) are complex ( resulting in over parameterization ) and varied ( leading to dissimilar predictions ) . Thus , simpler models are needed to elucidate the “minimal physiological requirements” to reproduce significant observable phenomena using as few parameters as possible . Moreover , models have been derived from experimental studies from a variety of species under a range of environmental conditions ( for example , all existing rabbit AP models incorporate a formulation of the rapid sodium current , INa , based on 30 year old data from chick embryo cell aggregates ) . Here we develop a simple “parsimonious” rabbit AP model that is mathematically identifiable ( i . e . , not over parameterized ) by combining a novel Hodgkin-Huxley formulation of INa with a phenomenological mode
During the sexual cycle of the ciliate Paramecium , assembly of the somatic genome includes the precise excision of tens of thousands of short , non-coding germline sequences ( Internal Eliminated Sequences or IESs ) , each one flanked by two TA dinucleotides . It has been reported previously that these genome rearrangements are initiated by the introduction of developmentally programmed DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) , which depend on the domesticated transposase PiggyMac . These DSBs all exhibit a characteristic geometry , with 4-base 5′ overhangs centered on the conserved TA , and may readily align and undergo ligation with minimal processing . However , the molecular steps and actors involved in the final and precise assembly of somatic genes have remained unknown . We demonstrate here that Ligase IV and Xrcc4p , core components of the non-homologous end-joining pathway ( NHEJ ) , are required both for the repair of IES excision sites and for the circularization of excised IESs 
Sudden death has been considered the main cause of death in patients with Chagas heart disease . Nevertheless , this information comes from a period before the introduction of drugs that changed the natural history of heart failure . We sought to study the mode of death of patients with heart failure caused by Chagas heart disease , comparing with non-Chagas cardiomyopathy . We examined the REMADHE trial and grouped patients according to etiology ( Chagas vs non-Chagas ) and mode of death . The primary end-point was all-cause , heart failure and sudden death mortality; 342 patients were analyzed and 185 ( 54 . 1% ) died . Death occurred in 56 . 4% Chagas patients and 53 . 7% non-Chagas patients . The cumulative incidence of all-cause mortality and heart failure mortality was significantly higher in Chagas patients compared to non-Chagas . There was no difference in the cumulative incidence of sudden death mortality between the two groups . In the Cox regression model , Chagas etiology 
The NSP-interacting kinase ( NIK ) receptor-mediated defense pathway has been identified recently as a virulence target of the geminivirus nuclear shuttle protein ( NSP ) . However , the NIK1–NSP interaction does not fit into the elicitor–receptor model of resistance , and hence the molecular mechanism that links this antiviral response to receptor activation remains obscure . Here , we identified a ribosomal protein , rpL10A , as a specific partner and substrate of NIK1 that functions as an immediate downstream effector of NIK1-mediated response . Phosphorylation of cytosolic rpL10A by NIK1 redirects the protein to the nucleus where it may act to modulate viral infection . While ectopic expression of normal NIK1 or a hyperactive NIK1 mutant promotes the accumulation of phosphorylated rpL10A within the nuclei , an inactive NIK1 mutant fails to redirect the protein to the nuclei of co-transfected cells . Likewise , a mutant rpL10A defective for NIK1 phosphorylation is not redirected to 
Paracoccidioides brasiliensis is a human thermal dimorphic pathogenic fungus . Survival of P . brasiliensis inside the host depends on the adaptation of this fungal pathogen to different conditions , namely oxidative stress imposed by immune cells . In this study , we evaluated the role of alternative oxidase ( AOX ) , an enzyme involved in the intracellular redox balancing , during host-P . brasiliensis interaction . We generated a mitotically stable P . brasiliensis AOX ( PbAOX ) antisense RNA ( aRNA ) strain with a 70% reduction in gene expression . We evaluated the relevance of PbAOX during interaction of conidia and yeast cells with IFN-γ activated alveolar macrophages and in a mouse model of infection . Additionally , we determined the fungal cell's viability and PbAOX in the presence of H2O2 . Interaction with IFN-γ activated alveolar macrophages induced higher levels of PbAOX gene expression in PbWt conidia than PbWt yeast cells . PbAOX-aRNA conidia and yeast cells had decrease
Episodic-like memory is thought to be supported by attractor dynamics in the hippocampus . A possible neural substrate for this memory mechanism is rate remapping , in which the spatial map of place cells encodes contextual information through firing rate variability . To test whether memories are stored as multimodal attractors in populations of place cells , recent experiments morphed one familiar context into another while observing the responses of CA3 cell ensembles . Average population activity in CA3 was reported to transition gradually rather than abruptly from one familiar context to the next , suggesting a lack of attractive forces associated with the two stored representations . On the other hand , individual CA3 cells showed a mix of gradual and abrupt transitions at different points along the morph sequence , and some displayed hysteresis which is a signature of attractor dynamics . To understand whether these seemingly conflicting results are commensurate with attractor n
Entamoeba histolytica , a microaerophilic enteric protozoan parasite , causes amebic colitis and extra intestinal abscesses in millions of inhabitants of endemic areas . Trophozoites of E . histolytica are exposed to a variety of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species during infection . Since E . histolytica lacks key components of canonical eukaryotic anti-oxidative defense systems , such as catalase and glutathione system , alternative not-yet-identified anti-oxidative defense strategies have been postulated to be operating in E . histolytica . In the present study , we investigated global metabolic responses in E . histolytica in response to H2O2- and paraquat-mediated oxidative stress by measuring charged metabolites on capillary electrophoresis and time-of-flight mass spectrometry . We found that oxidative stress caused drastic modulation of metabolites involved in glycolysis , chitin biosynthesis , and nucleotide and amino acid metabolism . Oxidative stress resulted in the inhibiti
IKAROS is a critical regulator of hematopoietic cell fate and its dynamic expression pattern is required for proper hematopoiesis . In collaboration with the Nucleosome Remodeling and Deacetylase ( NuRD ) complex , it promotes gene repression and activation . It remains to be clarified how IKAROS can support transcription activation while being associated with the HDAC-containing complex NuRD . IKAROS also binds to the Positive-Transcription Elongation Factor b ( P-TEFb ) at gene promoters . Here , we demonstrate that NuRD and P-TEFb are assembled in a complex that can be recruited to specific genes by IKAROS . The expression level of IKAROS influences the recruitment of the NuRD-P-TEFb complex to gene regulatory regions and facilitates transcription elongation by transferring the Protein Phosphatase 1α ( PP1α ) , an IKAROS-binding protein and P-TEFb activator , to CDK9 . We show that an IKAROS mutant that is unable to bind PP1α cannot sustain gene expression and impedes normal differe
Bat rabies is an emerging disease of public health significance in the Americas . The Caribbean island of Trinidad experiences periodic outbreaks within the livestock population . We performed molecular characterisation of Trinidad rabies virus ( RABV ) and used a Bayesian phylogeographic approach to investigate the extent to which outbreaks are a result of in situ evolution versus importation of virus from the nearby South American mainland . Trinidadian RABV sequences were confirmed as bat variant and clustered with Desmodus rotundus ( vampire bat ) related sequences . They fell into two largely temporally defined lineages designated Trinidad I and II . The Trinidad I lineage which included sequences from 1997–2000 ( all but two of which were from the northeast of the island ) was most closely related to RABV from Ecuador ( 2005 , 2007 ) , French Guiana ( 1990 ) and Venezuela ( 1993 , 1994 ) . Trinidad II comprised sequences from the southwest of the island , which clustered into two
The cerebral cortex is divided into many functionally distinct areas . The emergence of these areas during neural development is dependent on the expression patterns of several genes . Along the anterior-posterior axis , gradients of Fgf8 , Emx2 , Pax6 , Coup-tfi , and Sp8 play a particularly strong role in specifying areal identity . However , our understanding of the regulatory interactions between these genes that lead to their confinement to particular spatial patterns is currently qualitative and incomplete . We therefore used a computational model of the interactions between these five genes to determine which interactions , and combinations of interactions , occur in networks that reproduce the anterior-posterior expression patterns observed experimentally . The model treats expression levels as Boolean , reflecting the qualitative nature of the expression data currently available . We simulated gene expression patterns created by all possible networks containing the five genes 
Polycomb group ( PcG ) proteins control organism development by regulating the expression of developmental genes . Transcriptional regulation by PcG proteins is achieved , at least partly , through the PRC2-mediated methylation on lysine 27 of histone H3 ( H3K27 ) and PRC1-mediated ubiquitylation on lysine 119 of histone H2A ( uH2A ) . As an integral component of PRC1 , Bmi1 has been demonstrated to be critical for H2A ubiquitylation . Although recent studies have revealed the genome-wide binding patterns of some of the PRC1 and PRC2 components , as well as the H3K27me3 mark , there have been no reports describing genome-wide localization of uH2A . Using the recently developed ChIP-Seq technology , here , we report genome-wide localization of the Bmi1-dependent uH2A mark in MEF cells . Gene promoter averaging analysis indicates a peak of uH2A just inside the transcription start site ( TSS ) of well-annotated genes . This peak is enriched at promoters containing the H3K27me3 mark and re
Pregnancy-induced noncoding RNA ( PINC ) and retinoblastoma-associated protein 46 ( RbAp46 ) are upregulated in alveolar cells of the mammary gland during pregnancy and persist in alveolar cells that remain in the regressed lobules following involution . The cells that survive involution are thought to function as alveolar progenitor cells that rapidly differentiate into milk-producing cells in subsequent pregnancies , but it is unknown whether PINC and RbAp46 are involved in maintaining this progenitor population . Here , we show that , in the post-pubertal mouse mammary gland , mPINC is enriched in luminal and alveolar progenitors . mPINC levels increase throughout pregnancy and then decline in early lactation , when alveolar cells undergo terminal differentiation . Accordingly , mPINC expression is significantly decreased when HC11 mammary epithelial cells are induced to differentiate and produce milk proteins . This reduction in mPINC levels may be necessary for lactation , as over
PML ( Promyelocytic Leukemia protein ) , also known as TRIM19 , belongs to the family of tripartite motif ( TRIM ) proteins . PML is mainly expressed in the nucleus , where it forms dynamic structures known as PML nuclear bodies that recruit many other proteins , such as Sp100 and Daxx . While the role of PML/TRIM19 in antiviral defense is well documented , its effect on HIV-1 infection remains unclear . Here we show that infection by HIV-1 and other retroviruses triggers the formation of PML cytoplasmic bodies , as early as 30 minutes post-infection . Quantification of the number and size of PML cytoplasmic bodies revealed that they last approximately 8 h , with a peak at 2 h post-infection . PML re-localization is blocked by reverse-transcription inhibitors and is not observed following infection with unrelated viruses , suggesting it is specifically triggered by retroviral reverse-transcription . Furthermore , we show that PML interferes with an early step of retroviral infection si
Even when there is agreement on what measure a protein multiple structure alignment should be optimizing , finding the optimal alignment is computationally prohibitive . One approach used by many previous methods is aligned fragment pair chaining , where short structural fragments from all the proteins are aligned against each other optimally , and the final alignment chains these together in geometrically consistent ways . Ye and Godzik have recently suggested that adding geometric flexibility may help better model protein structures in a variety of contexts . We introduce the program Matt ( Multiple Alignment with Translations and Twists ) , an aligned fragment pair chaining algorithm that , in intermediate steps , allows local flexibility between fragments: small translations and rotations are temporarily allowed to bring sets of aligned fragments closer , even if they are physically impossible under rigid body transformations . After a dynamic programming assembly guided by these “
Entry into mitosis is triggered by activation of Cdk1 and inactivation of its counteracting phosphatase PP2A/B55 . Greatwall kinase inactivates PP2A/B55 via its substrates Ensa and ARPP19 . Both Greatwall and Ensa/ARPP19 are regulated by phosphorylation , but the dynamic regulation of Greatwall activity and the phosphatases that control Greatwall kinase and its substrates are poorly understood . To address these questions we applied a combination of mathematical modelling and experiments using phospho-specific antibodies to monitor Greatwall , Ensa/ARPP19 and Cdk substrate phosphorylation during mitotic entry and exit . We demonstrate that PP2A/B55 is required for Gwl dephosphorylation at the essential Cdk site Thr194 . Ensa/ARPP19 dephosphorylation is mediated by the RNA Polymerase II carboxy terminal domain phosphatase Fcp1 . Surprisingly , inhibition or depletion of neither Fcp1 nor PP2A appears to block dephosphorylation of the bulk of mitotic Cdk1 substrates during mitotic exit . 
One aim for an HIV vaccine is to elicit neutralizing antibodies ( Nab ) that can limit replication of genetically diverse viruses and prevent establishment of a new infection . Thus , identifying the strengths and weaknesses of Nab during the early stages of natural infection could prove useful in achieving this goal . Here we demonstrate that viral escape readily occurred despite the development of high titer autologous Nab in two subjects with acute/early subtype C infection . To provide a detailed portrayal of the escape pathways , Nab resistant variants identified at multiple time points were used to create a series of envelope ( Env ) glycoprotein chimeras and mutants within the background of a corresponding newly transmitted Env . In one subject , Nab escape was driven predominantly by changes in the region of gp120 that extends from the beginning of the V3 domain to the end of the V5 domain ( V3V5 ) . However , Nab escape pathways in this subject oscillated and at times required
The extent that both positive and negative selection vary across different portions of plant genomes remains poorly understood . Here , we sequence whole genomes of 13 Capsella grandiflora individuals and quantify the amount of selection across the genome . Using an estimate of the distribution of fitness effects , we show that selection is strong in coding regions , but weak in most noncoding regions , with the exception of 5′ and 3′ untranslated regions ( UTRs ) . However , estimates of selection on noncoding regions conserved across the Brassicaceae family show strong signals of selection . Additionally , we see reductions in neutral diversity around functional substitutions in both coding and conserved noncoding regions , indicating recent selective sweeps at these sites . Finally , using expression data from leaf tissue we show that genes that are more highly expressed experience stronger negative selection but comparable levels of positive selection to lowly expressed genes . Ove
Epstein-Barr Virus ( EBV ) transforms resting B-lymphocytes into proliferating lymphoblasts to establish latent infections that can give rise to malignancies . We show here that EBV-encoded transcriptional regulator EBNA2 drives the cooperative and combinatorial genome-wide binding of two master regulators of B-cell fate , namely EBF1 and RBP-jκ . Previous studies suggest that these B-cell factors are statically bound to target gene promoters . In contrast , we found that EBNA2 induces the formation of new binding for both RBP-jκ and EBF1 , many of which are in close physical proximity in the cellular and viral genome . These newly induced binding sites co-occupied by EBNA2-EBF1-RBP-jκ correlate strongly with transcriptional activation of linked genes that are important for B-lymphoblast function . Conditional expression or repression of EBNA2 leads to a rapid alteration in RBP-jκ and EBF1 binding . Biochemical and shRNA depletion studies provide evidence for cooperative assembly at co
Aedes aegypti is the main mosquito vector of the four serotypes of dengue virus ( DENV ) . Previous population genetic and vector competence studies have demonstrated substantial genetic structure and major differences in the ability to transmit dengue viruses in Ae . aegypti populations in Mexico . Population genetic studies revealed that the intersection of the Neovolcanic axis ( NVA ) with the Gulf of Mexico coast in the state of Veracruz acts as a discrete barrier to gene flow among Ae . aegypti populations north and south of the NVA . The mosquito populations north and south of the NVA also differed in their vector competence ( VC ) for dengue serotype 2 virus ( DENV2 ) . The average VC rate for Ae . aegypti mosquitoes from populations from north of the NVA was 0 . 55; in contrast the average VC rate for mosquitoes from populations from south of the NVA was 0 . 20 . Most of this variation was attributable to a midgut infection and escape barriers . In Ae . aegypti north of the NVA
The bacterial replication cycle is driven by the DnaA protein which cycles between the active ATP-bound form and the inactive ADP-bound form . It has been suggested that DnaA also is the main controller of initiation frequency . Initiation is thought to occur when enough ATP-DnaA has accumulated . In this work we have performed cell cycle analysis of cells that contain a surplus of ATP-DnaA and asked whether initiation then occurs earlier . It does not . Cells with more than a 50% increase in the concentration of ATP-DnaA showed no changes in timing of replication . We suggest that although ATP-DnaA is the main actor in initiation of replication , its accumulation does not control the time of initiation . ATP-DnaA is the motor that drives the initiation process , but other factors will be required for the exact timing of initiation in response to the cell’s environment . We also investigated the in vivo roles of datA dependent DnaA inactivation ( DDAH ) and the DnaA-binding protein Dia
Oscillatory activity plays a critical role in regulating biological processes at levels ranging from subcellular , cellular , and network to the whole organism , and often involves a large number of interacting elements . We shed light on this issue by introducing a novel approach called partial Granger causality to reliably reveal interaction patterns in multivariate data with exogenous inputs and latent variables in the frequency domain . The method is extensively tested with toy models , and successfully applied to experimental datasets , including ( 1 ) gene microarray data of HeLa cell cycle; ( 2 ) in vivo multi-electrode array ( MEA ) local field potentials ( LFPs ) recorded from the inferotemporal cortex of a sheep; and ( 3 ) in vivo LFPs recorded from distributed sites in the right hemisphere of a macaque monkey . 
Inferring the ancestry at each locus in the genome of recently admixed individuals ( e . g . , Latino Americans ) plays a major role in medical and population genetic inferences , ranging from finding disease-risk loci , to inferring recombination rates , to mapping missing contigs in the human genome . Although many methods for local ancestry inference have been proposed , most are designed for use with genotyping arrays and fail to make use of the full spectrum of data available from sequencing . In addition , current haplotype-based approaches are very computationally demanding , requiring large computational time for moderately large sample sizes . Here we present new methods for local ancestry inference that leverage continent-specific variants ( CSVs ) to attain increased performance over existing approaches in sequenced admixed genomes . A key feature of our approach is that it incorporates the admixed genomes themselves jointly with public datasets , such as 1000 Genomes , to i
In mammals , circadian periodicity has been described for gene expression in the hypothalamus and multiple peripheral tissues . It is accepted that 10%–15% of all genes oscillate in a daily rhythm , regulated by an intrinsic molecular clock . Statistical analyses of periodicity are limited by the small size of datasets and high levels of stochastic noise . Here , we propose a new approach applying digital signal processing algorithms separately to each group of genes oscillating in the same phase . Combined with the statistical tests for periodicity , this method identifies circadian baseline oscillation in almost 100% of all expressed genes . Consequently , circadian oscillation in gene expression should be evaluated in any study related to biological pathways . Changes in gene expression caused by mutations or regulation of environmental factors ( such as photic stimuli or feeding ) should be considered in the context of changes in the amplitude and phase of genetic oscillations . 
Recombination is an engine of genetic diversity and therefore constitutes a key process in evolutionary biology and genetics . While the outcome of crossover recombination can readily be detected as shuffled alleles by following the inheritance of markers in pedigreed families , the more precise location of both crossover and non-crossover recombination events has been difficult to pinpoint . As a consequence , we lack a detailed portrait of the recombination landscape for most organisms and knowledge on how this landscape impacts on sequence evolution at a local scale . To localize recombination events with high resolution in an avian system , we performed whole-genome re-sequencing at high coverage of a complete three-generation collared flycatcher pedigree . We identified 325 crossovers at a median resolution of 1 . 4 kb , with 86% of the events localized to <10 kb intervals . Observed crossover rates were in excellent agreement with data from linkage mapping , were 52% higher in ma
Repeat-proteins are made up of near repetitions of 20– to 40–amino acid stretches . These polypeptides usually fold up into non-globular , elongated architectures that are stabilized by the interactions within each repeat and those between adjacent repeats , but that lack contacts between residues distant in sequence . The inherent symmetries both in primary sequence and three-dimensional structure are reflected in a folding landscape that may be analyzed as a quasi–one-dimensional problem . We present a general description of repeat-protein energy landscapes based on a formal Ising-like treatment of the elementary interaction energetics in and between foldons , whose collective ensemble are treated as spin variables . The overall folding properties of a complete “domain” ( the stability and cooperativity of the repeating array ) can be derived from this microscopic description . The one-dimensional nature of the model implies there are simple relations for the experimental observables
Viral hepatitis , obesity , and alcoholism all represent major risk factors for hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) . Although these conditions also lead to integrated stress response ( ISR ) or unfolded protein response ( UPR ) activation , the extent to which these stress pathways influence the pathogenesis of HCC has not been tested . Here we provide multiple lines of evidence demonstrating that the ISR-regulated transcription factor CHOP promotes liver cancer . We show that CHOP expression is up-regulated in liver tumors in human HCC and two mouse models thereof . Chop-null mice are resistant to chemical hepatocarcinogenesis , and these mice exhibit attenuation of both apoptosis and cellular proliferation . Chop-null mice are also resistant to fibrosis , which is a key risk factor for HCC . Global gene expression profiling suggests that deletion of CHOP reduces the levels of basal inflammatory signaling in the liver . Our results are consistent with a model whereby CHOP contributes to
Leishmania aethiopica is the etiological agent of cutaneous leishmaniasis ( CL ) in Ethiopia and can cause severe and complicated cases such as diffuse CL ( DCL ) , mucocutaneous leishmaniasis or extensive CL , requiring systemic treatment . Despite the substantial burden , evidence-based treatment guidelines are lacking . We conducted a systematic review of clinical studies reporting on treatment outcomes of CL due to L aethiopica in order to help identify potentially efficacious medications on CL that can be taken forward for clinical trials . We identified a total of 24 records reporting on 506 treatment episodes of CL presumably due to L aethiopica . The most commonly used drugs were antimonials ( n = 201 ) , pentamidine ( n = 150 ) and cryotherapy ( n = 103 ) . There were 20 case reports/series , with an overall poor study quality . We only identified two small and/or poor quality randomized controlled trials conducted a long time ago . There were two prospective non-randomized st
A biochemical oscillator can be reconstituted in vitro with three purified proteins , that displays the salient properties of circadian ( daily ) rhythms , including self-sustained 24-h periodicity that is temperature compensated . We analyze the biochemical basis of this oscillator by quantifying the time-dependent interactions of the three proteins ( KaiA , KaiB , and KaiC ) by electron microscopy and native gel electrophoresis to elucidate the timing of the formation of complexes among the Kai proteins . The data are used to derive a dynamic model for the in vitro oscillator that accurately reproduces the rhythms of KaiABC complexes and of KaiC phosphorylation , and is consistent with biophysical observations of individual Kai protein interactions . We use fluorescence resonance energy transfer ( FRET ) to confirm that monomer exchange among KaiC hexamers occurs . The model demonstrates that the function of this monomer exchange may be to maintain synchrony among the KaiC hexamers i
It is well known that even under identical task conditions , there is a tremendous amount of trial-to-trial variability in both brain activity and behavioral output . Thus far the vast majority of event-related potential ( ERP ) studies investigating the relationship between trial-to-trial fluctuations in brain activity and behavioral performance have only tested a monotonic relationship between them . However , it was recently found that across-trial variability can correlate with behavioral performance independent of trial-averaged activity . This finding predicts a U- or inverted-U- shaped relationship between trial-to-trial brain activity and behavioral output , depending on whether larger brain variability is associated with better or worse behavior , respectively . Using a visual stimulus detection task , we provide evidence from human electrocorticography ( ECoG ) for an inverted-U brain-behavior relationship: When the raw fluctuation in broadband ECoG activity is closer to the 
Sexual development is a key evolutionary innovation of eukaryotes . In many species , mating involves interaction between compatible mating partners that can undergo cell and nuclear fusion and subsequent steps of development including meiosis . Mating compatibility in fungi is governed by the mating type ( MAT ) loci . In basidiomycetes , the ancestral state is hypothesized to be tetrapolar , with two genetically unlinked MAT loci containing homeodomain transcription factor genes ( HD locus ) and pheromone and pheromone receptor genes ( P/R locus ) , respectively . Alleles at both loci must differ between mating partners for completion of sexual development . However , there are also basidiomycetes with bipolar mating systems , which can arise through genomic linkage of the HD and P/R loci . In the order Tremellales , bipolarity is found only in the pathogenic Cryptococcus species . Here , we describe the analysis of MAT loci from 24 species of the Trichosporonales , a sister order to
Chagas disease is the most important vector-borne disease in Latin America . Regional initiatives based on residual insecticide spraying have successfully controlled domiciliated vectors in many regions . Non-domiciliated vectors remain responsible for a significant transmission risk , and their control is now a key challenge for disease control . A mathematical model was developed to predict the temporal variations in abundance of non-domiciliated vectors inside houses . Demographic parameters were estimated by fitting the model to two years of field data from the Yucatan peninsula , Mexico . The predictive value of the model was tested on an independent data set before simulations examined the efficacy of control strategies based on residual insecticide spraying , insect screens , and bednets . The model accurately fitted and predicted field data in the absence and presence of insecticide spraying . Pyrethroid spraying was found effective when 50 mg/m2 were applied yearly within a tw
Feathers are arranged in a precise pattern in avian skin . They first arise during development in a row along the dorsal midline , with rows of new feather buds added sequentially in a spreading wave . We show that the patterning of feathers relies on coupled fibroblast growth factor ( FGF ) and bone morphogenetic protein ( BMP ) signalling together with mesenchymal cell movement , acting in a coordinated reaction-diffusion-taxis system . This periodic patterning system is partly mechanochemical , with mechanical-chemical integration occurring through a positive feedback loop centred on FGF20 , which induces cell aggregation , mechanically compressing the epidermis to rapidly intensify FGF20 expression . The travelling wave of feather formation is imposed by expanding expression of Ectodysplasin A ( EDA ) , which initiates the expression of FGF20 . The EDA wave spreads across a mesenchymal cell density gradient , triggering pattern formation by lowering the threshold of mesenchymal cel
The 2013–15 Ebola outbreak was unprecedented due to sustained transmission within urban environments and thousands of survivors . In 2014 the World Health Organization stated that there was insufficient evidence to give definitive guidance about which body fluids are infectious and when they pose a risk to humans . We report a rapid systematic review of published evidence on the presence of filoviruses in body fluids of infected people and survivors . Scientific articles were screened for information about filovirus in human body fluids . The aim was to find primary data that suggested high likelihood of actively infectious filovirus in human body fluids ( viral RNA ) . Eligible infections were from Marburg virus ( MARV or RAVV ) and Zaire , Sudan , Taï Forest and Bundibugyo species of Ebola . Cause of infection had to be laboratory confirmed ( in practice either tissue culture or RT-PCR tests ) , or evidenced by compatible clinical history with subsequent positivity for filovirus anti
The voltage trace of neuronal activities can follow multiple timescale dynamics that arise from correlated membrane conductances . Such processes can result in power-law behavior in which the membrane voltage cannot be characterized with a single time constant . The emergent effect of these membrane correlations is a non-Markovian process that can be modeled with a fractional derivative . A fractional derivative is a non-local process in which the value of the variable is determined by integrating a temporal weighted voltage trace , also called the memory trace . Here we developed and analyzed a fractional leaky integrate-and-fire model in which the exponent of the fractional derivative can vary from 0 to 1 , with 1 representing the normal derivative . As the exponent of the fractional derivative decreases , the weights of the voltage trace increase . Thus , the value of the voltage is increasingly correlated with the trajectory of the voltage in the past . By varying only the fraction
The ability of Paracoccidioides to defend itself against reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) produced by host effector cells is a prerequisite to survive . To counteract these radicals , Paracoccidioides expresses , among different antioxidant enzymes , superoxide dismutases ( SODs ) . In this study , we identified six SODs isoforms encoded by the Paracoccidioides genome . We determined gene expression levels of representative isolates of the phylogenetic lineages of Paracoccidioides spp . ( S1 , PS2 , PS3 and Pb01-like ) using quantitative RT-PCR . Assays were carried out to analyze SOD gene expression of yeast cells , mycelia cells , the mycelia-to-yeast transition and the yeast-to-mycelia germination , as well as under treatment with oxidative agents and during interaction with phagocytic cells . We observed an increased expression of PbSOD1 and PbSOD3 during the transition process , exposure to oxidative agents and interaction with phagocytic cells , suggesting that these proteins coul
Intrinsically disordered/unstructured proteins ( IDPs ) are extremely sensitive to proteolysis in vitro , but show no enhanced degradation rates in vivo . Their existence and functioning may be explained if IDPs are preferentially associated with chaperones in the cell , which may offer protection against degradation by proteases . To test this inference , we took pairwise interaction data from high-throughput interaction studies and analyzed to see if predicted disorder correlates with the tendency of chaperone binding by proteins . Our major finding is that disorder predicted by the IUPred algorithm actually shows negative correlation with chaperone binding in E . coli , S . cerevisiae , and metazoa species . Since predicted disorder positively correlates with the tendency of partner binding in the interactome , the difference between the disorder of chaperone-binding and non-binding proteins is even more pronounced if normalized to their overall tendency to be involved in pairwise p
The Drosophila genes spalt major ( salm ) and spalt-related ( salr ) encode Zn-finger transcription factors regulated by the Decapentaplegic ( Dpp ) signalling pathway in the wing imaginal disc . The function of these genes is required for cell survival and proliferation in the central region of the wing disc , and also for vein patterning in the lateral regions . The identification of direct Salm and Salr target genes , and the analysis of their functions , are critical steps towards understanding the genetic control of growth and patterning of the Drosophila wing imaginal disc by the Dpp pathway . To identify candidate Salm/Salr target genes , we have compared the expression profile of salm/salr knockdown wing discs with control discs in microarray experiments . We studied by in situ hybridization the expression pattern of the genes whose mRNA levels varied significantly , and uncovered a complex transcription landscape regulated by the Spalt proteins in the wing disc . Interestingly
In humans perturbations of centriole number are associated with tumorigenesis and microcephaly , therefore appropriate regulation of centriole duplication is critical . The C . elegans homolog of Plk4 , ZYG-1 , is required for centriole duplication , but our understanding of how ZYG-1 levels are regulated remains incomplete . We have identified the two PP1 orthologs , GSP-1 and GSP-2 , and their regulators I-2SZY-2 and SDS-22 as key regulators of ZYG-1 protein levels . We find that down-regulation of PP1 activity either directly , or by mutation of szy-2 or sds-22 can rescue the loss of centriole duplication associated with a zyg-1 hypomorphic allele . Suppression is achieved through an increase in ZYG-1 levels , and our data indicate that PP1 normally regulates ZYG-1 through a post-translational mechanism . While moderate inhibition of PP1 activity can restore centriole duplication to a zyg-1 mutant , strong inhibition of PP1 in a wild-type background leads to centriole amplification 
Leishmaniasis is a rapidly expanding zoonosis that shows increasing urbanization . Concern exists regarding the role of wildlife in visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) transmission , due to frequent natural or anthropogenic environmental changes that facilitate contact between wildlife , humans and their pets . The municipality of Campinas , in southeastern Brazil , initially recorded VL in 2009 , when the first autochthonous case was confirmed in a dog living in an upscale residential condominium , located inside an environmentally protected area ( EPA ) . Since then , disease transmission remains restricted to dogs inhabiting two geographically contiguous condominiums within the EPA . We conducted a cross-sectional study of the VL focus to investigate Leishmania spp . infection in domestic dogs , wild mammals and sand flies using molecular tools and recommended serological techniques . Canine seroprevalences of 1 . 5% and 1 . 2% were observed in 2013 and 2015 , respectively . Six insect sp
MicroRNAs ( miRNAs ) are a family of small RNA molecules that negatively regulate the expression of protein-coding genes and play critical roles in orchestrating diverse cellular processes . This regulatory mechanism is also exploited by viruses to direct their life cycle and evade the host immune system . Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) is an oncogenic virus that is closely associated with multiple human diseases , including nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( NPC ) , which is a highly metastatic type of tumor and is frequently reported in South Asia . Several viral proteins have been found to promote the migration and invasiveness of NPC cells . However , not all tumor tissues express these viral oncoproteins , suggesting that other mechanisms may contribute to the aggressive behavior of NPC tumor cells . A previous sequencing study by our group revealed that the EBV miRNA miR-BART9 was expressed at high levels in all EBV-positive NPC tissues . In the present study , we used gain- and loss-of-func
We present ggsashimi , a command-line tool for the visualization of splicing events across multiple samples . Given a specified genomic region , ggsashimi creates sashimi plots for individual RNA-seq experiments as well as aggregated plots for groups of experiments , a feature unique to this software . Compared to the existing versions of programs generating sashimi plots , it uses popular bioinformatics file formats , it is annotation-independent , and allows the visualization of splicing events even for large genomic regions by scaling down the genomic segments between splice sites . ggsashimi is freely available at https://github . com/guigolab/ggsashimi . It is implemented in python , and internally generates R code for plotting . 
Cross-species comparison has emerged as a powerful paradigm for predicting cis-regulatory modules ( CRMs ) and understanding their evolution . The comparison requires reliable sequence alignment , which remains a challenging task for less conserved noncoding sequences . Furthermore , the existing models of DNA sequence evolution generally do not explicitly treat the special properties of CRM sequences . To address these limitations , we propose a model of CRM evolution that captures different modes of evolution of functional transcription factor binding sites ( TFBSs ) and the background sequences . A particularly novel aspect of our work is a probabilistic model of gains and losses of TFBSs , a process being recognized as an important part of regulatory sequence evolution . We present a computational framework that uses this model to solve the problems of CRM alignment and prediction . Our alignment method is similar to existing methods of statistical alignment but uses the conserved 
Transposons and other selfish DNA elements can be found in all phyla , and mobilization of these elements can compromise genome integrity . The piRNA ( PIWI-interacting RNA ) pathway silences transposons in the germline , but it is unclear if this pathway has additional functions during development . Here we show that mutations in the Drosophila piRNA pathway genes , armi , aub , ago3 , and rhi , lead to extensive fragmentation of the zygotic genome during the cleavage stage of embryonic divisions . Additionally , aub and armi show defects in telomere resolution during meiosis and the cleavage divisions; and mutations in lig-IV , which disrupt non-homologous end joining , suppress these fusions . By contrast , lig-IV mutations enhance chromosome fragmentation . Chromatin immunoprecipitation studies show that aub and armi mutations disrupt telomere binding of HOAP , which is a component of the telomere protection complex , and reduce expression of a subpopulation of 19- to 22-nt telomer
Over the past 30 years , Zaire and Sudan ebolaviruses have been responsible for large hemorrhagic fever ( HF ) outbreaks with case fatalities ranging from 53% to 90% , while a third species , Côte d'Ivoire ebolavirus , caused a single non-fatal HF case . In November 2007 , HF cases were reported in Bundibugyo District , Western Uganda . Laboratory investigation of the initial 29 suspect-case blood specimens by classic methods ( antigen capture , IgM and IgG ELISA ) and a recently developed random-primed pyrosequencing approach quickly identified this to be an Ebola HF outbreak associated with a newly discovered ebolavirus species ( Bundibugyo ebolavirus ) distantly related to the Côte d'Ivoire ebolavirus found in western Africa . Due to the sequence divergence of this new virus relative to all previously recognized ebolaviruses , these findings have important implications for design of future diagnostic assays to monitor Ebola HF disease in humans and animals , and ongoing efforts to d
There have been several reports on the varying rates of progression among Alzheimer's Disease ( AD ) patients; however , there has been no quantitative study of the amount of heterogeneity in AD . Obtaining a reliable quantitative measure of AD progression rates and their variances among the patients for each stage of AD is essential for evaluating results of any clinical study . The Global Deterioration Scale ( GDS ) and Functional Assessment Staging procedure ( FAST ) characterize seven stages in the course of AD from normal aging to severe dementia . Each GDS/FAST stage has a published mean duration , but the variance is unknown . We use statistical analysis to reconstruct GDS/FAST stage durations in a cohort of 648 AD patients with an average follow-up time of 4 . 78 years . Calculations for GDS/FAST stages 4–6 reveal that the standard deviations for stage durations are comparable with their mean values , indicating the presence of large variations in the AD progression among patie
Recently , we presented a study of adult neurogenesis in a simplified hippocampal memory model . The network was required to encode and decode memory patterns despite changing input statistics . We showed that additive neurogenesis was a more effective adaptation strategy compared to neuronal turnover and conventional synaptic plasticity as it allowed the network to respond to changes in the input statistics while preserving representations of earlier environments . Here we extend our model to include realistic , spatially driven input firing patterns in the form of grid cells in the entorhinal cortex . We compare network performance across a sequence of spatial environments using three distinct adaptation strategies: conventional synaptic plasticity , where the network is of fixed size but the connectivity is plastic; neuronal turnover , where the network is of fixed size but units in the network may die and be replaced; and additive neurogenesis , where the network starts out with fe
African trypanosomes express three virtually identical non-selenium glutathione peroxidase ( Px ) -type enzymes which preferably detoxify lipid-derived hydroperoxides . As shown previously , bloodstream Trypanosoma brucei lacking the mitochondrial Px III display only a weak and transient proliferation defect whereas parasites that lack the cytosolic Px I and Px II undergo extremely fast lipid peroxidation and cell lysis . The phenotype can completely be rescued by supplementing the medium with the α-tocopherol derivative Trolox . The mechanism underlying the rapid cell death remained however elusive . Here we show that the lysosome is the origin of the cellular injury . Feeding the px I–II knockout parasites with Alexa Fluor-conjugated dextran or LysoTracker in the presence of Trolox yielded a discrete lysosomal staining . Yet upon withdrawal of the antioxidant , the signal became progressively spread over the whole cell body and was completely lost , respectively . T . brucei acquire 
PMEL is an amyloidogenic protein that appears to be exclusively expressed in pigment cells and forms intralumenal fibrils within early stage melanosomes upon which eumelanins deposit in later stages . PMEL is well conserved among vertebrates , and allelic variants in several species are associated with reduced levels of eumelanin in epidermal tissues . However , in most of these cases it is not clear whether the allelic variants reflect gain-of-function or loss-of-function , and no complete PMEL loss-of-function has been reported in a mammal . Here , we have created a mouse line in which the Pmel gene has been inactivated ( Pmel−/− ) . These mice are fully viable , fertile , and display no obvious developmental defects . Melanosomes within Pmel−/− melanocytes are spherical in contrast to the oblong shape present in wild-type animals . This feature was documented in primary cultures of skin-derived melanocytes as well as in retinal pigment epithelium cells and in uveal melanocytes . Ina
Vector control remains the primary method to prevent dengue infections . Environmental interventions represent sustainable and safe methods as there are limited risks of environmental contamination and toxicity . The objective of this study is to perform a systematic review and meta-analysis of the effectiveness of the following environmental methods for dengue vector control . Following the PRISMA guidelines , a systematic literature search was conducted using the databases PubMed , EMBASE , LILACS , the Cochrane Library and Google Scholar . Quality assessment was done using the CONSORT 2010 checklist . For the meta-analysis the difference-in-differences ( DID ) and the difference-of-endlines ( DOE ) were calculated according to the Schmidt-Hunter method for the Breteau index ( BI ) and the pupae per person index ( PPI ) . Nineteen studies were eligible for the systematic review , sixteen contributed data to the meta-analysis . The following methods were evaluated: ( a ) container cov
Identifying small molecules that inhibit protein synthesis by selectively stalling the ribosome constitutes a new strategy for therapeutic development . Compounds that inhibit the translation of PCSK9 , a major regulator of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol , have been identified that reduce LDL cholesterol in preclinical models and that affect the translation of only a few off-target proteins . Although some of these compounds hold potential for future therapeutic development , it is not known how they impact the physiology of cells or ribosome quality control pathways . Here we used a genome-wide CRISPRi screen to identify proteins and pathways that modulate cell growth in the presence of high doses of a selective PCSK9 translational inhibitor , PF-06378503 ( PF8503 ) . The two most potent genetic modifiers of cell fitness in the presence of PF8503 , the ubiquitin binding protein ASCC2 and helicase ASCC3 , bind to the ribosome and protect cells from toxic effects of high concentrat
Regulation of messenger RNA ( mRNA ) stability plays critical roles in controlling gene expression , ensuring transcript fidelity , and allowing cells to respond to environmental cues . Unregulated enhancement of mRNA turnover could therefore dampen cellular responses to such signals . Indeed , several herpesviruses instigate widespread destruction of cellular mRNAs to block host gene expression and evade immune detection . Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) promotes this phenotype via the activity of its viral SOX protein , although the mechanism of SOX-induced mRNA turnover has remained unknown , given its apparent lack of intrinsic ribonuclease activity . Here , we report that KSHV SOX stimulates cellular transcriptome turnover via a unique mechanism involving aberrant polyadenylation . Transcripts in SOX-expressing cells exhibit extended poly ( A ) polymerase II-generated poly ( A ) tails and polyadenylation-linked mRNA turnover . SOX-induced polyadenylation changes c
The type III interferon ( IFNλ ) receptor IL-28R is abundantly expressed in the respiratory tract and has been shown essential for host defense against some viral pathogens , however no data are available concerning its role in the innate immune response to bacterial pathogens . Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa induced significant production of IFNλ in the lung , and clearance of these bacteria from the lung was significantly increased in IL-28R null mice compared to controls . Improved bacterial clearance correlated with reduced lung pathology and a reduced ratio of pro- vs anti-inflammatory cytokines in the airway . In human epithelial cells IFNλ inhibited miR-21 via STAT3 resulting in upregulation of PDCD4 , a protein known to promote inflammatory signaling . In vivo 18 hours following infection with either pathogen , miR-21 was significantly reduced and PDCD4 increased in the lungs of wild type compared to IL-28R null mice . Infection of PDCD4 null mice with USA300 
We conducted a retrospective study on mortality trends and risk factors in 781 naïve cases of advanced stage-2 sleeping sickness admitted between 1989 and 2012 at the National Reference Center for Human African Trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) , Department of Neurology , Kinshasa University , Democratic Republic of Congo ( DRC ) . Death was the outcome variable whereas age , gender , duration of disease , location of trypanosomes in body fluids , cytorachy , protidorachy , clinical status ( assessed on a syndromic and functional basis ) on admission , and treatment regimen were predictors in logistic regression models run at the 0 . 05 significance level . Death proportions were 17 . 2% in the standard melarsoprol schedule ( 3-series of intravenous melarsoprol on 3 successive days at 3 . 6 mg/kg/d , with a one-week interval between the series , ARS 9 ) ; 12 . 1% in the short schedule melarsoprol ( 10 consecutive days of intravenous melarsoprol at 2 . 2 mg/kg/d , ARS 10 ) , 5 . 4% in the first-l
Isolation profoundly influences social behavior in all animals . In humans , isolation has serious effects on health . Drosophila melanogaster is a powerful model to study small-scale , temporally-transient social behavior . However , longer-term analysis of large groups of flies is hampered by the lack of effective and reliable tools . We built a new imaging arena and improved the existing tracking algorithm to reliably follow a large number of flies simultaneously . Next , based on the automatic classification of touch and graph-based social network analysis , we designed an algorithm to quantify changes in the social network in response to prior social isolation . We observed that isolation significantly and swiftly enhanced individual and local social network parameters depicting near-neighbor relationships . We explored the genome-wide molecular correlates of these behavioral changes and found that whereas behavior changed throughout the six days of isolation , gene expression alt
The emergence of mobile technology offers new opportunities to improve clinical guideline adherence in resource-limited settings . We conducted a clinical pilot study in rural Bangladesh to evaluate the impact of a smartphone adaptation of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) diarrheal disease management guidelines , including a modality for age-based weight estimation . Software development was guided by end-user input and evaluated in a resource-limited district and sub-district hospital during the fall 2015 cholera season; both hospitals lacked scales which necessitated weight estimation . The study consisted of a 6 week pre-intervention and 6 week intervention period with a 10-day post-discharge follow-up . Standard of care was maintained throughout the study with the exception that admitting clinicians used the tool during the intervention . Inclusion criteria were patients two months of age and older with uncomplicated diarrheal disease . The primary outcome was adherence to gui
The complexity of host–parasite interactions makes it difficult to predict how host–parasite systems will respond to climate change . In particular , host and parasite traits such as survival and virulence may have distinct temperature dependencies that must be integrated into models of disease dynamics . Using experimental data from Daphnia magna and a microsporidian parasite , we fitted a mechanistic model of the within-host parasite population dynamics . Model parameters comprising host aging and mortality , as well as parasite growth , virulence , and equilibrium abundance , were specified by relationships arising from the metabolic theory of ecology . The model effectively predicts host survival , parasite growth , and the cost of infection across temperature while using less than half the parameters compared to modeling temperatures discretely . Our results serve as a proof of concept that linking simple metabolic models with a mechanistic host–parasite framework can be used to p
GABAergic interneurons play an important role in shaping the activity of excitatory pyramidal cells ( PCs ) . How the various inhibitory cell types contribute to neuronal information processing , however , is not resolved . Here , we propose a functional role for a widespread network motif consisting of parvalbumin- ( PV ) , somatostatin- ( SOM ) and vasoactive intestinal peptide ( VIP ) -expressing interneurons . Following the idea that PV and SOM interneurons control the distribution of somatic and dendritic inhibition onto PCs , we suggest that mutual inhibition between VIP and SOM cells translates weak inputs to VIP interneurons into large changes of somato-dendritic inhibition of PCs . Using a computational model , we show that the neuronal and synaptic properties of the circuit support this hypothesis . Moreover , we demonstrate that the SOM-VIP motif allows transient inputs to persistently switch the circuit between two processing modes , in which top-down inputs onto apical den
Microbiota contribute to many dimensions of host phenotype , including disease . To link specific microbes to specific phenotypes , microbiome-wide association studies compare microbial abundances between two groups of samples . Abundance differences , however , reflect not only direct associations with the phenotype , but also indirect effects due to microbial interactions . We found that microbial interactions could easily generate a large number of spurious associations that provide no mechanistic insight . Using techniques from statistical physics , we developed a method to remove indirect associations and applied it to the largest dataset on pediatric inflammatory bowel disease . Our method corrected the inflation of p-values in standard association tests and showed that only a small subset of associations is directly linked to the disease . Direct associations had a much higher accuracy in separating cases from controls and pointed to immunomodulation , butyrate production , and 
Pathogen replication and transmission in Wolbachia infected insects are currently studied using three Wolbachia infection systems: naturally infected Wolbachia hosts , hosts transinfected with Wolbachia ( stably maintained and inherited infections ) and hosts transiently infected with Wolbachia . All three systems have been used to test the effect of Wolbachia on mosquito transmitted pathogens such as dengue virus ( DENV ) , West Nile virus ( WNV ) and Plasmodium . From these studies it is becoming increasingly clear that the interaction between a particular pathogen and Wolbachia is heavily influenced by the host-Wolbachia interaction and the model of infection . In particular , there is some evidence that under very specific conditions , Wolbachia can enhance pathogen infection in some hosts . In this study , we compared the effect of Wolbachia in two infection models ( stable transinfected and transiently infected ) on the replication , infection- and transmission rates of two flavi
Cilia are microtubule-based cellular organelles that mediate signal transduction . Cilia are organized into several structurally and functionally distinct compartments: the basal body , the transition zone ( TZ ) , and the cilia shaft . In vertebrates , the cystoprotein Inversin localizes to a portion of the cilia shaft adjacent to the TZ , a region termed the “Inversin compartment” ( InvC ) . The mechanisms that establish and maintain the InvC are unknown . In the roundworm C . elegans , the cilia shafts of amphid channel and phasmid sensory cilia are subdivided into two regions defined by different microtubule ultrastructure: a proximal doublet-based region adjacent to the TZ , and a distal singlet-based region . It has been suggested that C . elegans cilia also possess an InvC , similarly to mammalian primary cilia . Here we explored the biogenesis , structure , and composition of the C . elegans ciliary doublet region and InvC . We show that the InvC is conserved and distinct from 
The development and regeneration of myelin by oligodendrocytes , the myelin-forming cells of the central nervous system ( CNS ) , requires profound changes in cell shape that lead to myelin sheath initiation and formation . Here , we demonstrate a requirement for the basal polarity complex protein Scribble in CNS myelination and remyelination . Scribble is expressed throughout oligodendroglial development and is up-regulated in mature oligodendrocytes where it is localised to both developing and mature CNS myelin sheaths . Knockdown of Scribble expression in cultured oligodendroglia results in disrupted morphology and myelination initiation . When Scribble expression is conditionally eliminated in the myelinating glia of transgenic mice , myelin initiation in CNS is disrupted , both during development and following focal demyelination , and longitudinal extension of the myelin sheath is disrupted . At later stages of myelination , Scribble acts to negatively regulate myelin thickness w
Streptolysin S ( SLS ) is a bacteriocin-like haemolytic and cytotoxic virulence factor that plays a key role in the virulence of Group A Streptococcus ( GAS ) , the causative agent of pharyngitis , impetigo , necrotizing fasciitis and streptococcal toxic shock syndrome . Although it has long been thought that SLS and related peptides are produced by GAS and related streptococci only , there is evidence to suggest that a number of the most notorious Gram-positive pathogenic bacteria , including Listeria monocytogenes , Clostridium botulinum and Staphylococcus aureus , produce related peptides . The distribution of the L . monocytogenes cluster is particularly noteworthy in that it is found exclusively among a subset of lineage I strains; i . e . , those responsible for the majority of outbreaks of listeriosis . Expression of these genes results in the production of a haemolytic and cytotoxic factor , designated Listeriolysin S , which contributes to virulence of the pathogen as assessed
Mycetoma is a persistent , progressive granulomatous inflammatory disease caused either by fungi or by bacteria . Characteristic of this disease is that the causative agents organise themselves in macroscopic structures called grains . These grains are surrounded by a massive inflammatory reaction . The processes leading to this host tissue reaction and the immunophenotypic characteristics of the mycetoma granuloma are not known . Due to the massive immune reaction and the tissue remodeling involved , we hypothesised that the expression levels of interleukin-17 ( IL-17 ) and matrix metalloprotease-9 ( MMP-9 ) in the mycetoma granuloma formation were correlated to the severity of the disease and that this correlation was independent of the causative agent responsible for the granuloma reaction . To determine the expression of IL-17 and MMP-9 in mycetoma lesions , the present study was conducted at the Mycetoma Research Centre , Sudan . Surgical biopsies from 100 patients with confirmed 
Molecular recognition by intrinsically disordered proteins ( IDPs ) commonly involves specific localized contacts and target-induced disorder to order transitions . However , some IDPs remain disordered in the bound state , a phenomenon coined “fuzziness” , often characterized by IDP polyvalency , sequence-insensitivity and a dynamic ensemble of disordered bound-state conformations . Besides the above general features , specific biophysical models for fuzzy interactions are mostly lacking . The transcriptional activation domain of the Ewing's Sarcoma oncoprotein family ( EAD ) is an IDP that exhibits many features of fuzziness , with multiple EAD aromatic side chains driving molecular recognition . Considering the prevalent role of cation-π interactions at various protein-protein interfaces , we hypothesized that EAD-target binding involves polycation- π contacts between a disordered EAD and basic residues on the target . Herein we evaluated the polycation-π hypothesis via functional a
The canonical ATP-dependent protease Lon participates in an assortment of biological processes in bacteria , including the catalysis of damaged or senescent proteins and short-lived regulatory proteins . Borrelia spirochetes are unusual in that they code for two putative ATP-dependent Lon homologs , Lon-1 and Lon-2 . Borrelia burgdorferi , the etiologic agent of Lyme disease , is transmitted through the blood feeding of Ixodes ticks . Previous work in our laboratory reported that B . burgdorferi lon-1 is upregulated transcriptionally by exposure to blood in vitro , while lon-2 is not . Because blood induction of Lon-1 may be of importance in the regulation of virulence factors critical for spirochete transmission , the clarification of functional roles for these two proteases in B . burgdorferi was the object of this study . On the chromosome , lon-2 is immediately downstream of ATP-dependent proteases clpP and clpX , an arrangement identical to that of lon of Escherichia coli . Phylog
Fc gamma receptor ( FcyR ) -mediated antibody functions play a crucial role in preventing HIV infection . One such function , antibody-dependent phagocytosis ( ADP ) , is thought to be involved in controlling other viral infections , but its role in HIV infection is unknown . We measured the ability of HIV-specific polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies ( mAbs ) to mediate the internalization of HIV-1 virions and HIV-1-decorated cells by phagocytes . To measure ADP of virions , we primarily used a green-fluorescent protein-expressing molecular clone of HIV-1JRFL , an R5 , clinical isolate , in combination with polyclonal HIVIG or mAbs known to capture and/or neutralize HIV-1 . THP-1 and U937 cells , as well as freshly isolated primary monocytes from healthy individuals , were used as phagocytic effector cells , and uptake of virions was measured by cytometry . We surprisingly found minimal or no ADP of virions with any of the antibodies . However , after coating virions with gp41 or with
Even though human hookworm infection is highly endemic in many countries throughout the world , its global economic and health impact is not well known . Without a better understanding of hookworm’s economic burden worldwide , it is difficult for decision makers such as funders , policy makers , disease control officials , and intervention manufacturers to determine how much time , energy , and resources to invest in hookworm control . We developed a computational simulation model to estimate the economic and health burden of hookworm infection in every country , WHO region , and globally , in 2016 from the societal perspective . Globally , hookworm infection resulted in a total 2 , 126 , 280 DALYs using 2004 disability weight estimates and 4 , 087 , 803 DALYs using 2010 disability weight estimates ( excluding cognitive impairment outcomes ) . Including cognitive impairment did not significantly increase DALYs worldwide . Total productivity losses varied with the probability of anemia 
The mechanisms of hypoxic injury to the developing human brain are poorly understood , despite being a major cause of chronic neurodevelopmental impairments . Recent work in the invertebrate Caenorhabditis elegans has shown that hypoxia causes discrete axon pathfinding errors in certain interneurons and motorneurons . However , it is unknown whether developmental hypoxia would have similar effects in a vertebrate nervous system . We have found that developmental hypoxic injury disrupts pathfinding of forebrain neurons in zebrafish ( Danio rerio ) , leading to errors in which commissural axons fail to cross the midline . The pathfinding defects result from activation of the hypoxia-inducible transcription factor ( hif1 ) pathway and are mimicked by chemical inducers of the hif1 pathway or by expression of constitutively active hif1α . Further , we found that blocking transcriptional activation by hif1α helped prevent the guidance defects . We identified ephrinB2a as a target of hif1 pat
Human paracoccidioidomycosis ( PCM ) is an endemic fungal disease of pulmonary origin . Follow-up of pulmonary lesions by image studies in an experimental model of PCM has not been previously attempted . This study focuses on defining patterns , topography and intensity of lung lesions in experimentally infected PCM mice by means of a comparative analysis between High Resolution Computed Tomography ( HRCT ) and histopathologic parameters . Male BALB/c mice were intranasally inoculated with 3×106 Paracoccidioides brasiliensis ( Pb ) conidia ( n = 50 ) or PBS ( n = 50 ) . HRCT was done every four weeks to determine pulmonary lesions , quantify lung density , reconstruct and quantify lung air structure . Lungs were also analyzed by histopathology and histomorphometry . Three different patterns of lesions were evidenced by HRCT and histopathology , as follows: nodular-diffuse , confluent and pseudo-tumoral . The lesions were mainly located around the hilus and affected more frequently the 
In areas endemic for visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) , a large number of infected individuals mount a protective cellular immune response and remain asymptomatic carriers . We propose an interferon-gamma release assay ( IFN-γRA ) as a novel marker for latent L . donovani infection . We modified a commercial kit ( QuantiFERON ) evaluating five different leishmania-specific antigens; H2B , H2B-PSA2 , H2B-Lepp12 , crude soluble antigen ( CSA ) and soluble leishmania antigen ( SLA ) from L . donovani with the aim to detect the cell-mediated immune response in VL . We evaluated the assay on venous blood samples of active VL patients ( n = 13 ) , cured VL patients ( n = 15 ) , non-endemic healthy controls ( n = 11 ) and healthy endemic controls ( n = 19 ) . The assay based on SLA had a sensitivity of 80% ( 95% CI = 54 . 81–92 . 95 ) and specificity of 100% ( 95% CI = 74 . 12–100 ) . Our findings suggest that a whole-blood SLA-based QuantiFERON assay can be used to measure the cell-mediated imm
Gastrointestinal infections caused by enteric yersiniae can become persistent and complicated by relapsing enteritis and severe autoimmune disorders . To establish a persistent infection , the bacteria have to cope with hostile surroundings when they transmigrate through the intestinal epithelium and colonize underlying gut-associated lymphatic tissues . How the bacteria gain a foothold in the face of host immune responses is poorly understood . Here , we show that the CNFY toxin , which enhances translocation of the antiphagocytic Yop effectors , induces inflammatory responses . This results in extensive tissue destruction , alteration of the intestinal microbiota and bacterial clearance . Suppression of CNFY function , however , increases interferon-γ-mediated responses , comprising non-inflammatory antimicrobial activities and tolerogenesis . This process is accompanied by a preterm reprogramming of the pathogen's transcriptional response towards persistence , which gives the bacter
For successful colonization and further reproduction in host plants , pathogens need to overcome the innate defenses of the plant . We demonstrate that a novel pathogenicity gene , DES1 , in Magnaporthe oryzae regulates counter-defenses against host basal resistance . The DES1 gene was identified by screening for pathogenicity-defective mutants in a T-DNA insertional mutant library . Bioinformatic analysis revealed that this gene encodes a serine-rich protein that has unknown biochemical properties , and its homologs are strictly conserved in filamentous Ascomycetes . Targeted gene deletion of DES1 had no apparent effect on developmental morphogenesis , including vegetative growth , conidial germination , appressorium formation , and appressorium-mediated penetration . Conidial size of the mutant became smaller than that of the wild type , but the mutant displayed no defects on cell wall integrity . The Δdes1 mutant was hypersensitive to exogenous oxidative stress and the activity and 
Mapping the distribution of schistosomiasis is essential to determine where control programs should operate , but because it is impractical to assess infection prevalence in every potentially endemic community , model-based geostatistics ( MBG ) is increasingly being used to predict prevalence and determine intervention strategies . To assess the accuracy of MBG predictions for Schistosoma haematobium infection in Ghana , school surveys were evaluated at 79 sites to yield empiric prevalence values that could be compared with values derived from recently published MBG predictions . Based on these findings schools were categorized according to WHO guidelines so that practical implications of any differences could be determined . Using the mean predicted values alone , 21 of the 25 empirically determined ‘high-risk’ schools requiring yearly praziquantel would have been undertreated and almost 20% of the remaining schools would have been treated despite empirically-determined absence of in
The mechanisms that guide motile sperm through the female reproductive tract to oocytes are not well understood . We have shown that Caenorhabditis elegans oocytes synthesize sperm guiding F-series prostaglandins from polyunsaturated fatty acid ( PUFA ) precursors provided in yolk lipoprotein complexes . Here we use genetics and electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry to partially delineate F-series prostaglandin metabolism pathways . We show that omega-6 and omega-3 PUFAs , including arachidonic and eicosapentaenoic acids , are converted into more than 10 structurally related F-series prostaglandins , which function collectively and largely redundantly to promote sperm guidance . Disruption of omega-3 PUFA synthesis triggers compensatory up-regulation of prostaglandins derived from omega-6 PUFAs . C . elegans F-series prostaglandin synthesis involves biochemical mechanisms distinct from those in mammalian cyclooxygenase-dependent pathways , yet PGF2α stereoisomers are still s
The immunogenicity of biotherapeutics can bottleneck development pipelines and poses a barrier to widespread clinical application . As a result , there is a growing need for improved deimmunization technologies . We have recently described algorithms that simultaneously optimize proteins for both reduced T cell epitope content and high-level function . In silico analysis of this dual objective design space reveals that there is no single global optimum with respect to protein deimmunization . Instead , mutagenic epitope deletion yields a spectrum of designs that exhibit tradeoffs between immunogenic potential and molecular function . The leading edge of this design space is the Pareto frontier , i . e . the undominated variants for which no other single design exhibits better performance in both criteria . Here , the Pareto frontier of a therapeutic enzyme has been designed , constructed , and evaluated experimentally . Various measures of protein performance were found to map a functi
For most eukaryotes , sexual reproduction is a fundamental process that requires meiosis . In turn , meiosis typically depends on a reciprocal exchange of DNA between each pair of homologous chromosomes , known as a crossover ( CO ) , to ensure proper chromosome segregation . The frequency and distribution of COs are regulated by intrinsic and extrinsic environmental factors , but much more is known about the molecular mechanisms governing the former compared to the latter . Here we show that elevated temperature induces meiotic hyper-recombination in Arabidopsis thaliana and we use genetic analysis with mutants in different recombination pathways to demonstrate that the extra COs are derived from the major Type I interference sensitive pathway . We also show that heat-induced COs are not the result of an increase in DNA double-strand breaks and that the hyper-recombinant phenotype is likely specific to thermal stress rather than a more generalized stress response . Taken together , th
The profusion of high-throughput instruments and the explosion of new results in the scientific literature , particularly in molecular biomedicine , is both a blessing and a curse to the bench researcher . Even knowledgeable and experienced scientists can benefit from computational tools that help navigate this vast and rapidly evolving terrain . In this paper , we describe a novel computational approach to this challenge , a knowledge-based system that combines reading , reasoning , and reporting methods to facilitate analysis of experimental data . Reading methods extract information from external resources , either by parsing structured data or using biomedical language processing to extract information from unstructured data , and track knowledge provenance . Reasoning methods enrich the knowledge that results from reading by , for example , noting two genes that are annotated to the same ontology term or database entry . Reasoning is also used to combine all sources into a knowled
Helminth parasites secrete extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) that can be internalised by host immune cells resulting in modulation of host immunity . While the molecular cargo of EVs have been characterised in many parasites , little is known about the surface-exposed molecules that participate in ligand-receptor interactions with the host cell surface to initiate vesicle docking and subsequent internalisation . Using a membrane-impermeable biotin reagent to capture proteins displayed on the outer membrane surface of two EV sub-populations ( termed 15k and 120k EVs ) released by adult F . hepatica , we describe 380 surface proteins including an array of virulence factors , membrane transport proteins and molecules involved in EV biogenesis/trafficking . Proteomics and immunohistochemical analysis show that the 120k EVs have an endosomal origin and may be released from the parasite via the protonephridial ( excretory ) system whilst the larger 15k EVs are released from the gastrodermal epi
The precise regulation of microRNA ( miRNA ) transcription and processing is important for eukaryotic development . Plant miRNAs are first transcribed as stem-loop primary miRNAs ( pri-miRNAs ) by RNA polymerase II , then cleaved in the nucleus into mature miRNAs by Dicer-like 1 ( DCL1 ) . We identified a cycling DOF transcription factor , CDF2 , which interacts with DCL1 and regulates the accumulation of a population of miRNAs . CDF2 binds directly to the promoters of some miRNAs and works as a transcription activator or repressor for these miRNA genes . CDF2 binds preferentially to the pri-miRNAs regulated by itself and affects DCL1-mediated processing of these pri-miRNAs . Genetically , CDF2 works in the same pathway as miR156 or miR172 to control flowering . We conclude that CDF2 regulates a group of pri-miRNAs at both the transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels to maintain proper levels of their mature miRNAs to control plant development . 
Folliculogenesis is a progressive and highly regulated process , which is essential to provide ova for later reproductive life , requires the bidirectional communication between the oocyte and granulosa cells . This physical connection-mediated communication conveys not only the signals from the oocyte to granulosa cells that regulate their proliferation but also metabolites from the granulosa cells to the oocyte for biosynthesis . However , the underlying mechanism of establishing this communication is largely unknown . Here , we report that oocyte geranylgeranyl diphosphate ( GGPP ) , a metabolic intermediate involved in protein geranylgeranylation , is required to establish the oocyte-granulosa cell communication . GGPP and geranylgeranyl diphosphate synthase ( Ggpps ) levels in oocytes increased during early follicular development . The selective depletion of GGPP in mouse oocytes impaired the proliferation of granulosa cells , primary-secondary follicle transition and female ferti
The RNA polymerase II ( Pol II ) is a eukaryotic enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of the messenger RNA using a DNA template . Despite numerous biochemical and biophysical studies , it remains elusive whether the “secondary channel” is the only route for NTP to reach the active site of the enzyme or if the “main channel” could be an alternative . On this regard , crystallographic structures of Pol II have been extremely useful to understand the structural basis of transcription , however , the conformation of the unpaired non-template DNA part of the full transcription bubble ( TB ) is still unknown . Since diffusion routes of the nucleoside triphosphate ( NTP ) substrate through the main channel might overlap with the TB region , gaining structural information of the full TB is critical for a complete understanding of Pol II transcription process . In this study , we have built a structural model of Pol II with a complete transcription bubble based on multiple sources of existing st
Disease incidence data are needed to guide decision-making for public health interventions . Although dengue is a reportable disease in Thailand and Cambodia , the degree that reported incidence underrecognizes true disease burden is unknown . We utilized dengue incidence calculated from laboratory-confirmed outpatient and inpatient cases in prospective cohort studies to estimate the magnitude of dengue underrecognition and to establish more accurate disease burden estimates for these countries . Cohort studies were conducted among children aged <15 years by members of a dengue field site consortium over at least 2 dengue seasons . Age-group specific multiplication factors ( MFs ) were computed by comparing data from three cohort studies to national surveillance data in the same province and year . In Thailand , 14 , 627 person-years of prospective cohort data were obtained in two provinces and 14 , 493 person-years from one province in Cambodia . Average annual incidence of laboratory
Understanding the mechanisms that help promote protective immune responses to pathogens is a major challenge in biomedical research and an important goal for the design of innovative therapeutic or vaccination strategies . While natural killer ( NK ) cells can directly contribute to the control of viral replication , whether , and how , they may help orchestrate global antiviral defense is largely unknown . To address this question , we took advantage of the well-defined molecular interactions involved in the recognition of mouse cytomegalovirus ( MCMV ) by NK cells . By using congenic or mutant mice and wild-type versus genetically engineered viruses , we examined the consequences on antiviral CD8 T cell responses of specific defects in the ability of the NK cells to control MCMV . This system allowed us to demonstrate , to our knowledge for the first time , that NK cells accelerate CD8 T cell responses against a viral infection in vivo . Moreover , we identify the underlying mechanis
In eukaryotes , 45S rRNA genes are arranged in tandem arrays in copy numbers ranging from several hundred to several thousand in plants . Although it is clear that not all copies are transcribed under normal growth conditions , the molecular basis controlling the expression of specific sets of rRNA genes remains unclear . Here , we report four major rRNA gene variants in Arabidopsis thaliana . Interestingly , while transcription of one of these rRNA variants is induced , the others are either repressed or remain unaltered in A . thaliana plants with a disrupted nucleolin-like protein gene ( Atnuc-L1 ) . Remarkably , the most highly represented rRNA gene variant , which is inactive in WT plants , is reactivated in Atnuc-L1 mutants . We show that accumulated pre–rRNAs originate from RNA Pol I transcription and are processed accurately . Moreover , we show that disruption of the AtNUC-L1 gene induces loss of symmetrical DNA methylation without affecting histone epigenetic marks at rRNA ge
Histone deacetylation plays a pivotal role in regulating human cytomegalovirus gene expression . In this report , we have identified candidate HDAC1-interacting proteins in the context of infection by using a method for rapid immunoisolation of an epitope-tagged protein coupled with mass spectrometry . Putative interactors included multiple human cytomegalovirus-coded proteins . In particular , the interaction of pUL38 and pUL29/28 with HDAC1 was confirmed by reciprocal immunoprecipitations . HDAC1 is present in numerous protein complexes , including the HDAC1-containing nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase protein complex , NuRD . pUL38 and pUL29/28 associated with the MTA2 component of NuRD , and shRNA-mediated knockdown of the RBBP4 and CHD4 constituents of NuRD inhibited HCMV immediate-early RNA and viral DNA accumulation; together this argues that multiple components of the NuRD complex are needed for efficient HCMV replication . Consistent with a positive acting role for the NuR
Respiratory Syncytial Virus ( RSV ) is the major cause of pneumonia among infants . Here we elucidated the antibody repertoire following primary RSV infection and traced its evolution through adolescence and adulthood . Whole genome-fragment phage display libraries ( GFPDL ) expressing linear and conformational epitopes in the RSV fusion protein ( F ) and attachment protein ( G ) were used for unbiased epitope profiling of infant sera prior to and following RSV infection . F-GFPDL analyses demonstrated modest changes in the anti-F epitope repertoires post-RSV infection , while G-GFPDL analyses revealed 100-fold increase in number of bound phages . The G-reactive epitopes spanned the N- and C-terminus of the G ectodomain , along with increased reactivity to the central conserved domain ( CCD ) . Panels of F and G antigenic sites were synthesized to evaluate sera from young children ( <2 yr ) , adolescents ( 14–18 yr ) and adults ( 30–45 yr ) in SPR real-time kinetics assays . A steady i
Filariae are parasitic nematodes that are transmitted to their definitive host as third-stage larvae by arthropod vectors like mosquitoes . Filariae cause diseases including: lymphatic filariasis with distressing and disturbing symptoms like elephantiasis; and river blindness . Filarial diseases affect millions of people in 73 countries throughout the topics and sub-tropics . The drugs available for mass drug administration , ( ivermectin , albendazole and diethylcarbamazine ) , are ineffective against adult filariae ( macrofilariae ) at the registered dosing regimen; this generates a real and urgent need to identify effective macrofilaricides . Emodepside , a veterinary anthelmintic registered for treatment of nematode infections in cats and dogs , is reported to have macrofilaricidal effects . Here , we explore the mode of action of emodepside using adult Brugia malayi , one of the species that causes lymphatic filariasis . Whole-parasite motility measurement with Worminator and patc
The Global Program to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis ( LF ) relies on rapid diagnostic tests ( RDTs ) to determine where annual mass drug administration for LF is required and when it can be stopped . These tests detect a Wuchereria bancrofti glycoprotein in the blood of infected persons via a carbohydrate moiety recognized by the monoclonal antibodies AD12 and DH6 . 5 . Loiasis cross-reactivity with LF RDTs has recently been recognized as a serious obstacle to LF elimination in loiasis-endemic areas . To better understand the nature of this cross-reactivity , we used the DH6 . 5 antibody to immunoaffinity purify Loa loa antigens from the sera of individuals with a positive RDT due to loiasis . Immunoblot analysis revealed many circulating AD12/DH6 . 5-reactive antigens , and proteomic analysis identified multiple L . loa proteins in LF RDT-positive loiasis sera . These included both secreted and somatic proteins , suggesting that they may be released by dying L . loa adult worms and/o
Primary cilia are specialised sensory and developmental signalling devices extending from the surface of most eukaryotic cells . Defects in these organelles cause inherited human disorders ( ciliopathies ) such as retinitis pigmentosa and Bardet-Biedl syndrome ( BBS ) , frequently affecting many physiological and developmental processes across multiple organs . Cilium formation , maintenance and function depend on intracellular transport systems such as intraflagellar transport ( IFT ) , which is driven by kinesin-2 and IFT-dynein motors and regulated by the Bardet-Biedl syndrome ( BBS ) cargo-adaptor protein complex , or BBSome . To identify new cilium-associated genes , we employed the nematode C . elegans , where ciliogenesis occurs within a short timespan during late embryogenesis when most sensory neurons differentiate . Using whole-organism RNA-Seq libraries , we discovered a signature expression profile highly enriched for transcripts of known ciliary proteins , including FAM-16
An important task of the brain is to represent the outside world . It is unclear how the brain may do this , however , as it can only rely on neural responses and has no independent access to external stimuli in order to “decode” what those responses mean . We investigate what can be learned about a space of stimuli using only the action potentials ( spikes ) of cells with stereotyped—but unknown—receptive fields . Using hippocampal place cells as a model system , we show that one can ( 1 ) extract global features of the environment and ( 2 ) construct an accurate representation of space , up to an overall scale factor , that can be used to track the animal's position . Unlike previous approaches to reconstructing position from place cell activity , this information is derived without knowing place fields or any other functions relating neural responses to position . We find that simply knowing which groups of cells fire together reveals a surprising amount of structure in the underlyi
Viral fulminant hepatitis ( FH ) is a severe disease with high mortality resulting from excessive inflammation in the infected liver . Clinical interventions have been inefficient due to the lack of knowledge for inflammatory pathogenesis in the virus-infected liver . We show that wild-type mice infected with murine hepatitis virus strain-3 ( MHV-3 ) , a model for viral FH , manifest with severe disease and high mortality in association with a significant elevation in IL-1β expression in the serum and liver . Whereas , the viral infection in IL-1β receptor-I deficient ( IL-1R1-/- ) or IL-1R antagonist ( IL-1Ra ) treated mice , show reductions in virus replication , disease progress and mortality . IL-1R1 deficiency appears to debilitate the virus-induced fibrinogen-like protein-2 ( FGL2 ) production in macrophages and CD45+Gr-1high neutrophil infiltration in the liver . The quick release of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) by the infected macrophages suggests a plausible viral initiatio
Hookworm infections are an important cause of ( severe ) anemia and iron deficiency in children in the tropics . Type of hookworm species ( Ancylostoma duodenale or Necator americanus ) and infection load are considered associated with disease burden , although these parameters are rarely assessed due to limitations of currently used diagnostic methods . Using multiplex real-time PCR , we evaluated hookworm species-specific prevalence , infection load and their contribution towards severe anemia and iron deficiency in pre-school children in Malawi . A . duodenale and N . americanus DNA loads were determined in 830 fecal samples of pre-school children participating in a case control study investigating severe anemia . Using multiplex real-time PCR , hookworm infections were found in 34 . 1% of the severely anemic cases and in 27 . 0% of the non-severely anemic controls ( p<0 . 05 ) whereas a 5 . 6% hookworm prevalence was detected by microscopy . Prevalence of A . duodenale and N . amer
Successful completion of meiosis requires the induction and faithful repair of DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) . DSBs can be repaired via homologous recombination ( HR ) or non-homologous end joining ( NHEJ ) , yet only repair via HR can generate the interhomolog crossovers ( COs ) needed for meiotic chromosome segregation . Here we identify COM-1 , the homolog of CtIP/Sae2/Ctp1 , as a crucial regulator of DSB repair pathway choice during Caenorhabditis elegans gametogenesis . COM-1–deficient germ cells repair meiotic DSBs via the error-prone pathway NHEJ , resulting in a lack of COs , extensive chromosomal aggregation , and near-complete embryonic lethality . In contrast to its yeast counterparts , COM-1 is not required for Spo11 removal and initiation of meiotic DSB repair , but instead promotes meiotic recombination by counteracting the NHEJ complex Ku . In fact , animals defective for both COM-1 and Ku are viable and proficient in CO formation . Further genetic dissection reveale
Burkholderia pseudomallei causes melioidosis , a common source of pneumonia and sepsis in Southeast Asia and Northern Australia that results in high mortality rates . A caprine melioidosis model of aerosol infection that leads to a systemic infection has the potential to characterize the humoral immune response . This could help identify immunogenic proteins for new diagnostics and vaccine candidates . Outbred goats may more accurately mimic human infection , in contrast to the inbred mouse models used to date . B . pseudomallei infection was delivered as an intratracheal aerosol . Antigenic protein profiling was generated from the infecting strain MSHR511 . Humoral immune responses were analyzed by ELISA and western blot , and the antigenic proteins were identified by mass spectrometry . Throughout the course of the infection the assay results demonstrated a much greater humoral response with IgG antibodies , in both breadth and quantity , compared to IgM antibodies . Pre-infection se
Activation of cyclin B1–cyclin-dependent kinase 1 ( Cdk1 ) , triggered by a positive feedback loop at the end of G2 , is the key event that initiates mitotic entry . In metaphase , anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome–dependent destruction of cyclin B1 inactivates Cdk1 again , allowing mitotic exit and cell division . Several models describe Cdk1 activation kinetics in mitosis , but experimental data on how the activation proceeds in mitotic cells have largely been lacking . We use a novel approach to determine the temporal development of cyclin B1–Cdk1 activity in single cells . By quantifying both dephosphorylation of Cdk1 and phosphorylation of the Cdk1 target anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome 3 , we disclose how cyclin B1–Cdk1 continues to be activated after centrosome separation . Importantly , we discovered that cytoplasmic cyclin B1–Cdk1 activity can be maintained even when cyclin B1 translocates to the nucleus in prophase . These experimental data are fitted into a model des
HIV-1 vaccines designed to date have failed to elicit neutralizing antibodies ( Nabs ) that are capable of protecting against globally diverse HIV-1 subtypes . One relevant setting to study the development of a strong , cross-reactive Nab response is HIV-1 superinfection ( SI ) , defined as sequential infections from different source partners . SI has previously been shown to lead to a broader and more potent Nab response when compared to single infection , but it is unclear whether SI also impacts epitope specificity and if the epitopes targeted after SI differ from those targeted after single infection . Here the post-SI Nab responses were examined from 21 Kenyan women collectively exposed to subtypes A , C , and D and superinfected after a median time of ~1 . 07 years following initial infection . Plasma samples chosen for analysis were collected at a median time point ~2 . 72 years post-SI . Because previous studies of singly infected populations with broad and potent Nab responses
Congenital human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) infection is the leading cause of neurological disabilities in children worldwide , but the mechanisms underlying these disorders are far from well-defined . HCMV infection has been shown to dysregulate the Notch signaling pathway in human neural progenitor cells ( NPCs ) . As an important downstream effector of Notch signaling , the transcriptional regulator Hairy and Enhancer of Split 1 ( Hes1 ) is essential for governing NPC fate and fetal brain development . In the present study , we report that HCMV infection downregulates Hes1 protein levels in infected NPCs . The HCMV 72-kDa immediate-early 1 protein ( IE1 ) is involved in Hes1 degradation by assembling a ubiquitination complex and promoting Hes1 ubiquitination as a potential E3 ubiquitin ligase , followed by proteasomal degradation of Hes1 . Sp100A , an important component of PML nuclear bodies , is identified to be another target of IE1-mediated ubiquitination . A C-terminal acidic reg
To better characterize how variation in regulatory sequences drives divergence in gene expression , we undertook a systematic study of transcription factor binding and gene expression in blastoderm embryos of four species , which sample much of the diversity in the 40 million-year old genus Drosophila: D . melanogaster , D . yakuba , D . pseudoobscura and D . virilis . We compared gene expression , measured by mRNA-seq , to the genome-wide binding , measured by ChIP-seq , of four transcription factors involved in early anterior-posterior patterning . We found that mRNA levels are much better conserved than individual transcription factor binding events , and that changes in a gene's expression were poorly explained by changes in adjacent transcription factor binding . However , highly bound sites , sites in regions bound by multiple factors and sites near genes are conserved more frequently than other binding , suggesting that a considerable amount of transcription factor binding is we
Monitoring and evaluation guidelines of the programme to eliminate lymphatic filariasis require impact assessments in at least one sentinel and one spot-check site in each implementation unit ( IU ) . Transmission assessment surveys ( TAS ) that assess antigenaemia ( Ag ) in children in IUs that have completed at least five rounds of mass drug administration ( MDA ) each with >65% coverage and with microfilaria ( Mf ) levels <1% in the monitored sites form the basis for stopping the MDA . Despite its rigour , this multi-step process is likely to miss sites with transmission potential ( ‘hotspots’ ) and its statistical assumptions for sampling and threshold levels for decision-making have not been validated . We addressed these issues in a large-scale epidemiological study in two primary health centres in Thanjavur district , India , endemic for bancroftian filariasis that had undergone eight rounds of MDA . The prevalence and intensity of Mf ( per 60 µl blood ) were 0 . 2% and 0 . 004 
The application of the organophosphate larvicide temephos to water storage containers is one of the most commonly employed dengue vector control methods . This systematic literature review is to the knowledge of the authors the first that aims to assess the community-effectiveness of temephos in controlling both vectors and dengue transmission when delivered either as a single intervention or in combination with other interventions . A comprehensive literature search of 6 databases was performed ( PubMed , WHOLIS , GIFT , CDSR , EMBASE , Wiley ) , grey literature and cross references were also screened for relevant studies . Data were extracted and methodological quality of the studies was assessed independently by two reviewers . 27 studies were included in this systematic review ( 11 single intervention studies and 16 combined intervention studies ) . All 11 single intervention studies showed consistently that using temephos led to a reduction in entomological indices . Although 11 o
The cohesin complex holds sister chromatids together from the time of their duplication in S phase until their separation during mitosis . Although cohesin is found along the length of chromosomes , it is most abundant at the centromere and surrounding region , the pericentromere . We show here that the budding yeast Ctf19 kinetochore subcomplex and the replication fork-associated factor , Csm3 , are both important mediators of pericentromeric cohesion , but they act through distinct mechanisms . We show that components of the Ctf19 complex direct the increased association of cohesin with the pericentromere . In contrast , Csm3 is dispensable for cohesin enrichment in the pericentromere but is essential in ensuring its functionality in holding sister centromeres together . Consistently , cells lacking Csm3 show additive cohesion defects in combination with mutants in the Ctf19 complex . Furthermore , delaying DNA replication rescues the cohesion defect observed in cells lacking Ctf19 c
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is the most widespread arbovirus with an estimated 100 million infections occurring every year . Endemic in the tropical and subtropical areas of the world , dengue fever/dengue hemorrhagic fever ( DF/DHF ) is emerging as a major public health concern . The complex array of concurrent host physiologic changes has hampered a complete understanding of underlying molecular mechanisms of dengue pathogenesis . Systems level characterization of serum metabolome and lipidome of adult DF patients at early febrile , defervescence , and convalescent stages of DENV infection was performed using liquid chromatography- and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry . The tractability of following metabolite and lipid changes in a relatively large sample size ( n = 44 ) across three prominent infection stages allowed the identification of critical physiologic changes that coincided with the different stages . Sixty differential metabolites were identified in our metabolomics analysis
Research on Neglected Tropical Diseases ( NTDs ) has increased in recent decades , and significant need-gaps in diagnostic and treatment tools remain . Analysing bibliometric data from published research is a powerful method for revealing research efforts , partnerships and expertise . We aim to identify and map NTD research networks in Germany and their partners abroad to enable an informed and transparent evaluation of German contributions to NTD research . A SCOPUS database search for articles with German author affiliations that were published between 2002 and 2012 was conducted for kinetoplastid and helminth diseases . Open-access tools were used for data cleaning and scientometrics ( OpenRefine ) , geocoding ( OpenStreetMaps ) and to create ( Table2Net ) , visualise and analyse co-authorship networks ( Gephi ) . From 26 , 833 publications from around the world that addressed 11 diseases , we identified 1 , 187 ( 4 . 4% ) with at least one German author affiliation , and we proces
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) and soil-transmitted helminths ( STH ) have been targeted since 2000 in Haiti , with a strong mass drug administration ( MDA ) program led by the Ministry of Public Health and Population and its collaborating international partners . By 2012 , Haiti’s neglected tropical disease ( NTD ) program had reached full national scale , and with such consistently good epidemiological coverage that it is now able to stop treatment for LF throughout almost all of the country . Essential to this success have been in the detail of how MDAs were implemented . These key programmatic elements included ensuring strong community awareness through an evidence-based , multi-channel communication and education campaign facilitated by voluntary drug distributors; strengthening community trust of the drug distributors by ensuring that respected community members were recruited and received appropriate training , supervision , identification , and motivation; enforcing a “directly o
In all domains of life , proper regulation of the cell cycle is critical to coordinate genome replication , segregation and cell division . In some groups of bacteria , e . g . Alphaproteobacteria , tight regulation of the cell cycle is also necessary for the morphological and functional differentiation of cells . Sinorhizobium meliloti is an alphaproteobacterium that forms an economically and ecologically important nitrogen-fixing symbiosis with specific legume hosts . During this symbiosis S . meliloti undergoes an elaborate cellular differentiation within host root cells . The differentiation of S . meliloti results in massive amplification of the genome , cell branching and/or elongation , and loss of reproductive capacity . In Caulobacter crescentus , cellular differentiation is tightly linked to the cell cycle via the activity of the master regulator CtrA , and recent research in S . meliloti suggests that CtrA might also be key to cellular differentiation during symbiosis . Howe
Francisella tularensis is a highly infectious bacterium causing the zoonotic disease tularemia . Its ability to multiply and survive in macrophages is critical for its virulence . By screening a bank of HimarFT transposon mutants of the F . tularensis live vaccine strain ( LVS ) to isolate intracellular growth-deficient mutants , we selected one mutant in a gene encoding a putative γ-glutamyl transpeptidase ( GGT ) . This gene ( FTL_0766 ) was hence designated ggt . The mutant strain showed impaired intracellular multiplication and was strongly attenuated for virulence in mice . Here we present evidence that the GGT activity of F . tularensis allows utilization of glutathione ( GSH , γ-glutamyl-cysteinyl-glycine ) and γ-glutamyl-cysteine dipeptide as cysteine sources to ensure intracellular growth . This is the first demonstration of the essential role of a nutrient acquisition system in the intracellular multiplication of F . tularensis . GSH is the most abundant source of cysteine in
Protozoan parasites of the genus Leishmania alternate between flagellated , elongated extracellular promastigotes found in insect vectors , and round-shaped amastigotes enclosed in phagolysosome-like Parasitophorous Vacuoles ( PVs ) of infected mammalian host cells . Leishmania amazonensis amastigotes occupy large PVs which may contain many parasites; in contrast , single amastigotes of Leishmania major lodge in small , tight PVs , which undergo fission as parasites divide . To determine if PVs of these Leishmania species can fuse with each other , mouse macrophages in culture were infected with non-fluorescent L . amazonensis amastigotes and , 48 h later , superinfected with fluorescent L . major amastigotes or promastigotes . Fusion was investigated by time-lapse image acquisition of living cells and inferred from the colocalization of parasites of the two species in the same PVs . Survival , multiplication and differentiation of parasites that did or did not share the same vacuoles 
Eliciting broad tier 2 neutralizing antibodies ( nAbs ) is a major goal of HIV-1 vaccine research . Here we investigated the ability of native , membrane-expressed JR-FL Env trimers to elicit nAbs . Unusually potent nAb titers developed in 2 of 8 rabbits immunized with virus-like particles ( VLPs ) expressing trimers ( trimer VLP sera ) and in 1 of 20 rabbits immunized with DNA expressing native Env trimer , followed by a protein boost ( DNA trimer sera ) . All 3 sera neutralized via quaternary epitopes and exploited natural gaps in the glycan defenses of the second conserved region of JR-FL gp120 . Specifically , trimer VLP sera took advantage of the unusual absence of a glycan at residue 197 ( present in 98 . 7% of Envs ) . Intriguingly , removing the N197 glycan ( with no loss of tier 2 phenotype ) rendered 50% or 16 . 7% ( n = 18 ) of clade B tier 2 isolates sensitive to the two trimer VLP sera , showing broad neutralization via the surface masked by the N197 glycan . Neutralizing 
While traditionally surgery has dominated the clinical management of Buruli ulcer ( BU ) , the introduction of the combination chemotherapy with oral rifampicin and intramuscular streptomycin greatly improved treatment and reduced recurrence rates . However management of the often extensive lesions after successful specific therapy has remained a challenge , in particular in rural areas of the African countries which carry the highest burden of disease . For reasons not fully understood , wound healing is delayed in a proportion of antibiotic treated BU patients . Therefore , we have performed immunohistochemical investigations to identify markers which may be suitable to monitor wound healing progression . Tissue specimens from eight BU patients with plaque lesions collected before , during and after chemotherapy were analyzed by immunohistochemistry for the presence of a set of markers associated with connective tissue neo-formation , tissue remodeling and epidermal activation . Seve
Matching energy supply and demand is critical in the bioenergetic homeostasis of all cells . This is a special problem in neurons where high levels of energy expenditure may occur at sites remote from the cell body , given the remarkable length of axons and enormous variability of impulse activity over time . Positioning mitochondria at areas with high energy requirements is an essential solution to this problem , but it is not known how this is related to impulse conduction in vivo . Therefore , to study mitochondrial trafficking along resting and electrically active adult axons in vivo , confocal imaging of saphenous nerves in anaesthetised mice was combined with electrical and pharmacological stimulation of myelinated and unmyelinated axons , respectively . We show that low frequency activity induced by electrical stimulation significantly increases anterograde and retrograde mitochondrial traffic in comparison with silent axons . Higher frequency conduction within a physiological r
Spondylocarpotarsal synostosis ( SCT ) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by progressive vertebral fusions and caused by loss of function mutations in Filamin B ( FLNB ) . FLNB acts as a signaling scaffold by linking the actin cytoskleteon to signal transduction systems , yet the disease mechanisms for SCT remain unclear . Employing a Flnb knockout mouse , we found morphologic and molecular evidence that the intervertebral discs ( IVDs ) of Flnb–/–mice undergo rapid and progressive degeneration during postnatal development as a result of abnormal cell fate changes in the IVD , particularly the annulus fibrosus ( AF ) . In Flnb–/–mice , the AF cells lose their typical fibroblast-like characteristics and acquire the molecular and phenotypic signature of hypertrophic chondrocytes . This change is characterized by hallmarks of endochondral-like ossification including alterations in collagen matrix , expression of Collagen X , increased apoptosis , and inappropriate ossificati
Viruses have evolved a plethora of mechanisms to target host antiviral responses . Here , we propose a yet uncharacterized mechanism of immune regulation by the orthomyxovirus Thogoto virus ( THOV ) ML protein through engaging general transcription factor TFIIB . ML generates a TFIIB depleted nuclear environment by re-localizing it into the cytoplasm . Although a broad effect on gene expression would be anticipated , ML expression , delivery of an ML-derived functional domain or experimental depletion of TFIIB only leads to altered expression of a limited number of genes . Our data indicate that TFIIB is critically important for the de novo recruitment of Pol II to promoter start sites and that TFIIB may not be required for regulated gene expression from paused promoters . Since many immune genes require de novo recruitment of Pol II , targeting of TFIIB by THOV represents a neat mechanism to affect immune responses while keeping other cellular transcriptional activities intact . Thus 
Human parvovirus B19 ( B19V ) infection of primary human erythroid progenitor cells ( EPCs ) arrests infected cells at both late S-phase and G2-phase , which contain 4N DNA . B19V infection induces a DNA damage response ( DDR ) that facilitates viral DNA replication but is dispensable for cell cycle arrest at G2-phase; however , a putative C-terminal transactivation domain ( TAD2 ) within NS1 is responsible for G2-phase arrest . To fully understand the mechanism underlying B19V NS1-induced G2-phase arrest , we established two doxycycline-inducible B19V-permissive UT7/Epo-S1 cell lines that express NS1 or NS1mTAD2 , and examined the function of the TAD2 domain during G2-phase arrest . The results confirm that the NS1 TAD2 domain plays a pivotal role in NS1-induced G2-phase arrest . Mechanistically , NS1 transactivated cellular gene expression through the TAD2 domain , which was itself responsible for ATR ( ataxia-telangiectasia mutated and Rad3-related ) activation . Activated ATR phosp
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is the most prevalent , medically important mosquito-borne virus . Disease ranges from uncomplicated dengue to life-threatening disease , characterized by endothelial dysfunction and vascular leakage . Previously , we demonstrated that DENV nonstructural protein 1 ( NS1 ) induces endothelial hyperpermeability in a systemic mouse model and human pulmonary endothelial cells , where NS1 disrupts the endothelial glycocalyx-like layer . NS1 also triggers release of inflammatory cytokines from PBMCs via TLR4 . Here , we examined the relative contributions of inflammatory mediators and endothelial cell-intrinsic pathways . In vivo , we demonstrated that DENV NS1 but not the closely-related West Nile virus NS1 triggers localized vascular leak in the dorsal dermis of wild-type C57BL/6 mice . In vitro , we showed that human dermal endothelial cells exposed to DENV NS1 do not produce inflammatory cytokines ( TNF-α , IL-6 , IL-8 ) and that blocking these cytokines does not af
The first step towards cytokinesis in budding yeast is the assembly of a septin ring at the future site of bud emergence . Integrity of this ring is crucial for cytokinesis , proper spindle positioning , and the spindle position checkpoint ( SPOC ) . This checkpoint delays mitotic exit and cytokinesis as long as the anaphase spindle does not properly align with the division axis . SPOC signalling requires the Kin4 protein kinase and the Kin4-regulating Elm1 kinase , which also controls septin dynamics . Here , we show that the two redundant ubiquitin-ligases Dma1 and Dma2 control septin dynamics and the SPOC by promoting the efficient recruitment of Elm1 to the bud neck . Indeed , dma1 dma2 mutant cells show reduced levels of Elm1 at the bud neck and Elm1-dependent activation of Kin4 . Artificial recruitment of Elm1 to the bud neck of the same cells is sufficient to re-establish a normal septin ring , proper spindle positioning , and a proficient SPOC response in dma1 dma2 cells . Alto
Humans inhabit a remarkably diverse range of environments , and adaptation through natural selection has likely played a central role in the capacity to survive and thrive in extreme climates . Unlike numerous studies that used only population genetic data to search for evidence of selection , here we scan the human genome for selection signals by identifying the SNPs with the strongest correlations between allele frequencies and climate across 61 worldwide populations . We find a striking enrichment of genic and nonsynonymous SNPs relative to non-genic SNPs among those that are strongly correlated with these climate variables . Among the most extreme signals , several overlap with those from GWAS , including SNPs associated with pigmentation and autoimmune diseases . Further , we find an enrichment of strong signals in gene sets related to UV radiation , infection and immunity , and cancer . Our results imply that adaptations to climate shaped the spatial distribution of variation in 
The short QT syndrome ( SQTS ) is a genetically heterogeneous condition characterized by abbreviated QT intervals and an increased susceptibility to arrhythmia and sudden death . This simulation study identifies arrhythmogenic mechanisms in the rapid-delayed rectifier K+ current ( IKr ) -linked SQT1 variant of the SQTS . Markov chain ( MC ) models were found to be superior to Hodgkin-Huxley ( HH ) models in reproducing experimental data regarding effects of the N588K mutation on KCNH2-encoded hERG . These ionic channel models were then incorporated into human ventricular action potential ( AP ) models and into 1D and 2D idealised and realistic transmural ventricular tissue simulations and into a 3D anatomical model . In single cell models , the N588K mutation abbreviated ventricular cell AP duration at 90% repolarization ( APD90 ) and decreased the maximal transmural voltage heterogeneity ( δV ) during APs . This resulted in decreased transmural heterogeneity of APD90 and of the effect
A variety of simple models has been proposed to understand the collective motion of animals . These models can be insightful but may lack important elements necessary to predict the motion of each individual in the collective . Adding more detail increases predictability but can make models too complex to be insightful . Here we report that deep attention networks can obtain a model of collective behavior that is simultaneously predictive and insightful thanks to an organization in modules . When using simulated trajectories , the model recovers the ground-truth interaction rule used to generate them , as well as the number of interacting neighbours . For experimental trajectories of large groups of 60-100 zebrafish , Danio rerio , the model obtains that interactions between pairs can approximately be described as repulsive , attractive or as alignment , but only when moving slowly . At high velocities , interactions correspond only to alignment or alignment mixed with repulsion at clo
Drug resistant HIV is a major threat to the long-term efficacy of antiretroviral treatment . Around 10% of ART-naïve patients in Europe are infected with drug-resistant HIV type 1 . Hence it is important to understand the dynamics of transmitted drug resistance evolution . Thanks to routinely performed drug resistance tests , HIV sequence data is increasingly available and can be used to reconstruct the phylogenetic relationship among viral lineages . In this study we employ a phylodynamic approach to quantify the fitness costs of major resistance mutations in the Swiss HIV cohort . The viral phylogeny reflects the transmission tree , which we model using stochastic birth–death-sampling processes with two types: hosts infected by a sensitive or resistant strain . This allows quantification of fitness cost as the ratio between transmission rates of hosts infected by drug resistant strains and transmission rates of hosts infected by drug sensitive strains . The resistance mutations 41L ,
The Elongator complex , including the histone acetyl transferase Sin3/Elp3 , was isolated as an RNA polymerase II-interacting complex , and cells deficient in Elongator subunits display transcriptional defects . However , it has also been shown that Elongator mediates the modification of some tRNAs , modulating translation efficiency . We show here that the fission yeast Sin3/Elp3 is important for oxidative stress survival . The stress transcriptional program , governed by the Sty1-Atf1-Pcr1 pathway , is affected in mutant cells , but not severely . On the contrary , cells lacking Sin3/Elp3 cannot modify the uridine wobble nucleoside of certain tRNAs , and other tRNA modifying activities such as Ctu1-Ctu2 are also essential for normal tolerance to H2O2 . In particular , a plasmid over-expressing the tRNALysUUU complements the stress-related phenotypes of Sin3/Elp3 mutant cells . We have determined that the main H2O2-dependent genes , including those coding for the transcription factors
Primate lentivirus nef is required for sustained virus replication in vivo and accelerated progression to AIDS . While exploring the mechanism by which Nef increases the infectivity of cell-free virions , we investigated a functional link between Nef and Env . Since we failed to detect an effect of Nef on the quantity of virion-associated Env , we searched for qualitative changes by examining whether Nef alters HIV-1 sensitivity to agents that target distinct features of Env . Nef conferred as much as 50-fold resistance to 2F5 and 4E10 , two potent neutralizing monoclonal antibodies ( nAbs ) that target the membrane proximal external region ( MPER ) of TMgp41 . In contrast , Nef had no effect on HIV-1 neutralization by MPER-specific nAb Z13e1 , by the peptide inhibitor T20 , nor by a panel of nAbs and other reagents targeting gp120 . Resistance to neutralization by 2F5 and 4E10 was observed with Nef from a diverse range of HIV-1 and SIV isolates , as well as with HIV-1 virions bearing 
Bithynia siamensis goniomphalos is the snail intermediate host of the liver fluke , Opisthorchis viverrini , the leading cause of cholangiocarcinoma ( CCA ) in the Greater Mekong sub-region of Thailand . Despite the severe public health impact of Opisthorchis-induced CCA , knowledge of the molecular interactions occurring between the parasite and its snail intermediate host is scant . The examination of differences in gene expression profiling between uninfected and O . viverrini-infected B . siamensis goniomphalos could provide clues on fundamental pathways involved in the regulation of snail-parasite interplay . Using high-throughput ( Illumina ) sequencing and extensive bioinformatic analyses , we characterized the transcriptomes of uninfected and O . viverrini-infected B . siamensis goniomphalos . Comparative analyses of gene expression profiling allowed the identification of 7 , 655 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) , associated to 43 distinct biological pathways , including
Pathophysiological mechanisms are still incompletely understood for leprosy , an urgent public health issue in Brazil . Complement receptor 1 ( CR1 ) binds complement fragments C3b/C4b deposited on mycobacteria , mediating its entrance in macrophages . We investigated CR1 polymorphisms , gene expression and soluble CR1 levels in a case-control study with Brazilian leprosy patients , aiming to understand the role of this receptor in differential susceptibility to the disease . Nine polymorphisms were haplotyped by multiplex PCR-SSP in 213 leprosy patients ( 47% multibacillary ) and 297 controls . mRNA levels were measured by qPCR and sCR1 by ELISA , in up to 80 samples . Individuals with the most common recombinant haplotype harboring rs3849266*T in intron 21 and rs3737002*T in exon 26 ( encoding p . 1408Met of the York Yka+ antigen ) , presented twice higher susceptibility to leprosy ( OR = 2 . 43 , p = 0 . 017 ) . Paucibacillary patients with these variants presented lower sCR1 levels
Metabolomic profiling and the integration of whole-genome genetic association data has proven to be a powerful tool to comprehensively explore gene regulatory networks and to investigate the effects of genetic variation at the molecular level . Serum metabolite concentrations allow a direct readout of biological processes , and association of specific metabolomic signatures with complex diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and cardiovascular and metabolic disorders has been shown . There are well-known correlations between sex and the incidence , prevalence , age of onset , symptoms , and severity of a disease , as well as the reaction to drugs . However , most of the studies published so far did not consider the role of sexual dimorphism and did not analyse their data stratified by gender . This study investigated sex-specific differences of serum metabolite concentrations and their underlying genetic determination . For discovery and replication we used more than 3 , 300 independent 
Genome-scale metabolic networks provide a comprehensive structural framework for modeling genotype-phenotype relationships through flux simulations . The solution space for the metabolic flux state of the cell is typically very large and optimization-based approaches are often necessary for predicting the active metabolic state under specific environmental conditions . The objective function to be used in such optimization algorithms is directly linked with the biological hypothesis underlying the model and therefore it is one of the most relevant parameters for successful modeling . Although linear combination of selected fluxes is widely used for formulating metabolic objective functions , we show that the resulting optimization problem is sensitive towards stoichiometry representation of the metabolic network . This undesirable sensitivity leads to different simulation results when using numerically different but biochemically equivalent stoichiometry representations and thereby mak
Landscape may affect the distribution of infectious diseases by influencing the population density and dispersal of hosts and vectors . Plague ( Yersinia pestis infection ) is a highly virulent , re-emerging disease , the ecology of which has been scarcely studied in Africa . Human seroprevalence data for the major plague focus of Madagascar suggest that plague spreads heterogeneously across the landscape as a function of the relief . Plague is primarily a disease of rodents . We therefore investigated the relationship between disease distribution and the population genetic structure of the black rat , Rattus rattus , the main reservoir of plague in Madagascar . We conducted a comparative study of plague seroprevalence and genetic structure ( 15 microsatellite markers ) in rat populations from four geographic areas differing in topology , each covering about 150–200 km2 within the Madagascan plague focus . The seroprevalence levels in the rat populations mimicked those previously repor
The heptalaminate-covered , syncytial tegument is an important anatomical adaptation that enables schistosome parasites to maintain long-term , intravascular residence in definitive hosts . Investigation of the proteins present in this surface layer and the immune responses elicited by them during infection is crucial to our understanding of host/parasite interactions . Recent studies have revealed a number of novel tegumental surface proteins including three ( SmCD59a , SmCD59b and Sm29 ) containing uPAR/Ly6 domains ( renamed SmLy6A SmLy6B and SmLy6D in this study ) . While vaccination with SmLy6A ( SmCD59a ) and SmLy6D ( Sm29 ) induces protective immunity in experimental models , human immunoglobulin responses to representative SmLy6 family members have yet to be thoroughly explored . Using a PSI-BLAST-based search , we present a comprehensive reanalysis of the Schistosoma mansoni Ly6 family ( SmLy6A-K ) . Our examination extends the number of members to eleven ( including three nove
Cells in the Drosophila retina have well-defined morphologies that are attained during tissue morphogenesis . We present a computer simulation of the epithelial tissue in which the global interfacial energy between cells is minimized . Experimental data for both normal cells and mutant cells either lacking or misexpressing the adhesion protein N-cadherin can be explained by a simple model incorporating salient features of morphogenesis that include the timing of N-cadherin expression in cells and its temporal relationship to the remodeling of cell-cell contacts . The simulations reproduce the geometries of wild-type and mutant cells , distinguish features of cadherin dynamics , and emphasize the importance of adhesion protein biogenesis and its timing with respect to cell remodeling . The simulations also indicate that N-cadherin protein is recycled from inactive interfaces to active interfaces , thereby modulating adhesion strengths between cells . 
MT1-MMP is a potent invasion-promoting membrane protease employed by aggressive cancer cells . MT1-MMP localizes preferentially at membrane protrusions called invadopodia where it plays a central role in degradation of the surrounding extracellular matrix ( ECM ) . Previous reports suggested a role for a continuous supply of MT1-MMP in ECM degradation . However , the turnover rate of MT1-MMP and the extent to which the turnover contributes to the ECM degradation at invadopodia have not been clarified . To approach this problem , we first performed FRAP ( Fluorescence Recovery after Photobleaching ) experiments with fluorescence-tagged MT1-MMP focusing on a single invadopodium and found very rapid recovery in FRAP signals , approximated by double-exponential plots with time constants of 26 s and 259 s . The recovery depended primarily on vesicle transport , but negligibly on lateral diffusion . Next we constructed a computational model employing the observed kinetics of the FRAP experim
The process by which drug-resistant HIV-1 arises and spreads spatially within an infected individual is poorly understood . Studies have found variable results relating how HIV-1 in the blood differs from virus sampled in tissues , offering conflicting findings about whether HIV-1 throughout the body is homogeneously distributed . However , most of these studies sample only two compartments and few have data from multiple time points . To directly measure how drug resistance spreads within a host and to assess how spatial structure impacts its emergence , we examined serial sequences from four macaques infected with RT-SHIVmne027 , a simian immunodeficiency virus encoding HIV-1 reverse transcriptase ( RT ) , and treated with RT inhibitors . Both viral DNA and RNA ( vDNA and vRNA ) were isolated from the blood ( including plasma and peripheral blood mononuclear cells ) , lymph nodes , gut , and vagina at a median of four time points and RT was characterized via single-genome sequencing 
Feedback regulation of cell lineage progression plays an important role in tissue size homeostasis , but whether such feedback also plays an important role in tissue morphogenesis has yet to be explored . Here we use mathematical modeling to show that a particular feedback architecture in which both positive and negative diffusible signals act on stem and/or progenitor cells leads to the appearance of bistable or bi-modal growth behaviors , ultrasensitivity to external growth cues , local growth-driven budding , self-sustaining elongation , and the triggering of self-organization in the form of lamellar fingers . Such behaviors arise not through regulation of cell cycle speeds , but through the control of stem or progenitor self-renewal . Even though the spatial patterns that arise in this setting are the result of interactions between diffusible factors with antagonistic effects , morphogenesis is not the consequence of Turing-type instabilities . 
Myopia , or nearsightedness , is the most common eye disorder , resulting primarily from excess elongation of the eye . The etiology of myopia , although known to be complex , is poorly understood . Here we report the largest ever genome-wide association study ( 45 , 771 participants ) on myopia in Europeans . We performed a survival analysis on age of myopia onset and identified 22 significant associations ( ) , two of which are replications of earlier associations with refractive error . Ten of the 20 novel associations identified replicate in a separate cohort of 8 , 323 participants who reported if they had developed myopia before age 10 . These 22 associations in total explain 2 . 9% of the variance in myopia age of onset and point toward a number of different mechanisms behind the development of myopia . One association is in the gene PRSS56 , which has previously been linked to abnormally small eyes; one is in a gene that forms part of the extracellular matrix ( LAMA2 ) ; two ar
Like other animals , lampreys have a central pattern generator ( CPG ) circuit that activates muscles for locomotion and also adjusts the activity to respond to sensory inputs from the environment . Such a feedback system is crucial for responding appropriately to unexpected perturbations , but it is also active during normal unperturbed steady swimming and influences the baseline swimming pattern . In this study , we investigate different functional forms of body curvature-based sensory feedback and evaluate their effects on steady swimming energetics and kinematics , since little is known experimentally about the functional form of curvature feedback . The distributed CPG is modeled as chains of coupled oscillators . Pairs of phase oscillators represent the left and right sides of segments along the lamprey body . These activate muscles that flex the body and move the lamprey through a fluid environment , which is simulated using a full Navier-Stokes model . The emergent curvature of
Outside Africa , the global phylogeography of HIV is characterized by compartmentalized local epidemics that are typically dominated by a single subtype , which indicates strong founder effects . We hypothesized that the competition of viral strains at the epidemic level may involve an advantage of the resident strain that was the first to colonize a population . Such an effect would slow down the invasion of new strains , and thus also the diversification of the epidemic . We developed a stochastic modelling framework to simulate HIV epidemics over dynamic contact networks . We simulated epidemics in which the second strain was introduced into a population where the first strain had established a steady-state epidemic , and assessed whether , and on what time scale , the second strain was able to spread in the population . Simulations were parameterized based on empirical data; we tested scenarios with varying levels of overall prevalence . The spread of the second strain occurred on 
The organization of muscle is the product of functional adaptation over several length scales spanning from the sarcomere to the muscle bundle . One possible strategy for solving this multiscale coupling problem is to physically constrain the muscle cells in microenvironments that potentiate the organization of their intracellular space . We hypothesized that boundary conditions in the extracellular space potentiate the organization of cytoskeletal scaffolds for directed sarcomeregenesis . We developed a quantitative model of how the cytoskeleton of neonatal rat ventricular myocytes organizes with respect to geometric cues in the extracellular matrix . Numerical results and in vitro assays to control myocyte shape indicated that distinct cytoskeletal architectures arise from two temporally-ordered , organizational processes: the interaction between actin fibers , premyofibrils and focal adhesions , as well as cooperative alignment and parallel bundling of nascent myofibrils . Our resul
The symbiotic bacterium Wolbachia is currently being trialled as a biocontrol agent in several countries to reduce dengue transmission . Wolbachia can invade and spread to infect all individuals within wild mosquito populations , but requires a high rate of maternal transmission , strong cytoplasmic incompatibility and low fitness costs in the host in order to do so . Additionally , extensive differences in climate , field-release protocols , urbanization level and human density amongst the sites where this bacterium has been deployed have limited comparison and analysis of Wolbachia’s invasive potential . We examined key phenotypic effects of the wMel Wolbachia strain in laboratory Aedes aegypti mosquitoes with a Brazilian genetic background to characterize its invasive potential . We show that the wMel strain causes strong cytoplasmic incompatibility , a high rate of maternal transmission and has no evident detrimental effect on host fecundity or fertility . Next , to understand the 
Histone lysine methylation is an important epigenetic modification in regulating chromatin structure and gene expression . Histone H3 lysine 4 methylation ( H3K4me ) , which can be in a mono- , di- , or trimethylated state , has been shown to play an important role in gene expression involved in plant developmental control and stress adaptation . However , the resetting mechanism of this epigenetic modification is not yet fully understood . In this work , we identified a JmjC domain-containing protein , JMJ703 , as a histone lysine demethylase that specifically reverses all three forms of H3K4me in rice . Loss-of-function mutation of the gene affected stem elongation and plant growth , which may be related to increased expression of cytokinin oxidase genes in the mutant . Analysis of crystal structure of the catalytic core domain ( c-JMJ703 ) of the protein revealed a general structural similarity with mammalian and yeast JMJD2 proteins that are H3K9 and H3K36 demethylases . However , 
The HIV-1 capsid is involved in all infectious steps from reverse transcription to integration site selection , and is the target of multiple host cell and pharmacologic ligands . However , structural studies have been limited to capsid monomers ( CA ) , and the mechanistic basis for how these ligands influence infection is not well understood . Here we show that a multi-subunit interface formed exclusively within CA hexamers mediates binding to linear epitopes within cellular cofactors NUP153 and CPSF6 , and is competed for by the antiretroviral compounds PF74 and BI-2 . Each ligand is anchored via a shared phenylalanine-glycine ( FG ) motif to a pocket within the N-terminal domain of one monomer , and all but BI-2 also make essential interactions across the N-terminal domain: C-terminal domain ( NTD:CTD ) interface to a second monomer . Dissociation of hexamer into CA monomers prevents high affinity interaction with CPSF6 and PF74 , and abolishes binding to NUP153 . The second interf
The mosquito Aedes aegypti transmits some of the most important human arboviruses , including dengue , yellow fever and chikungunya viruses . It has a large genome containing many repetitive sequences , which has resulted in the genome being poorly assembled — there are 4 , 758 scaffolds , few of which have been assigned to a chromosome . To allow the mapping of genes affecting disease transmission , we have improved the genome assembly by scoring a large number of SNPs in recombinant progeny from a cross between two strains of Ae . aegypti , and used these to generate a genetic map . This revealed a high rate of misassemblies in the current genome , where , for example , sequences from different chromosomes were found on the same scaffold . Once these were corrected , we were able to assign 60% of the genome sequence to chromosomes and approximately order the scaffolds along the chromosome . We found that there are very large regions of suppressed recombination around the centromeres 
The mosquito Aedes aegypti , vector of dengue , chikungunya and yellow fever viruses , is an important target of vector control programs in tropical countries . Most mosquito surveillance programs are still based on the traditional household larval surveys , despite the availability of new trapping devices . We report the results of a multicentric entomological survey using four types of traps , besides the larval survey , to compare the entomological indices generated by these different surveillance tools in terms of their sensitivity to detect mosquito density variation . The study was conducted in five mid-sized cities , representing variations of tropical climate regimens . Surveillance schemes using traps for adults ( BG-Sentinel , Adultrap and MosquiTRAP ) or eggs ( ovitraps ) were applied monthly to three 1 km2 areas per city . Simultaneously , larval surveys were performed . Trap positivity and density indices in each area were calculated and regressed against meteorological va
The human cytidine deaminase APOBEC3G ( A3G ) is a potent inhibitor of retroviruses and transposable elements and is able to deaminate cytidines to uridines in single-stranded DNA replication intermediates . A3G contains two canonical cytidine deaminase domains ( CDAs ) , of which only the C-terminal one is known to mediate cytidine deamination . By exploiting the crystal structure of the related tetrameric APOBEC2 ( A2 ) protein , we identified residues within A3G that have the potential to mediate oligomerization of the protein . Using yeast two-hybrid assays , co-immunoprecipitation , and chemical crosslinking , we show that tyrosine-124 and tryptophan-127 within the enzymatically inactive N-terminal CDA domain mediate A3G oligomerization , and this coincides with packaging into HIV-1 virions . In addition to the importance of specific residues in A3G , oligomerization is also shown to be RNA-dependent . Homology modelling of A3G onto the A2 template structure indicates an accumulat
Many agriculturally , evolutionarily , and medically important characters vary in a quantitative fashion . Unfortunately , the genes and sequence variants accounting for this variation remain largely unknown due to a variety of biological and technical challenges . Drosophila melanogaster contains high levels of sequence variation and low linkage disequilibrium , allowing us to dissect the effects of many causative variants within a single locus . Here , we take advantage of these features to identify and characterize the sequence polymorphisms that comprise major effect QTL alleles segregating at the bric-a-brac locus . We show that natural bric-a-brac alleles with large effects on cuticular pigmentation reflect a cumulative impact of polymorphisms that affect three functional regions: a promoter , a tissue-specific enhancer , and a Polycomb response element . Analysis of allele-specific expression at the bric-a-brac locus confirms that these polymorphisms modulate transcription at th
Streptococcus pneumoniae ( pneumococcus ) has remained a persistent cause of invasive and mucosal disease in humans despite the widespread use of antibiotics and vaccines . The resilience of this organism is due to its capacity for adaptation through the uptake and incorporation of new genetic material from the surrounding microbial community . DNA uptake and recombination is controlled by a tightly regulated quorum sensing system that is triggered by the extracellular accumulation of competence stimulating peptide ( CSP ) . In this study , we demonstrate that CSP can stimulate the production of a diverse array of blp bacteriocins . This cross stimulation occurs through increased production and secretion of the bacteriocin pheromone , BlpC , and requires a functional competence regulatory system . We show that a highly conserved motif in the promoter of the operon encoding BlpC and its transporter mediates the upregulation by CSP . The accumulation of BlpC following CSP stimulation res
Poliovirus IRES-mediated translation requires the functions of certain canonical as well as non-canonical factors for the recruitment of ribosomes to the viral RNA . The interaction of cellular proteins PCBP2 and SRp20 in extracts from poliovirus-infected cells has been previously described , and these two proteins were shown to function synergistically in viral translation . To further define the mechanism of ribosome recruitment for the initiation of poliovirus IRES-dependent translation , we focused on the role of the interaction between cellular proteins PCBP2 and SRp20 . Work described here demonstrates that SRp20 dramatically re-localizes from the nucleus to the cytoplasm of poliovirus-infected neuroblastoma cells during the course of infection . Importantly , SRp20 partially co-localizes with PCBP2 in the cytoplasm of infected cells , corroborating our previous in vitro interaction data . In addition , the data presented implicate the presence of these two proteins in viral tran
The neural crest ( NC ) is a population of embryonic stem cells that gives rise to numerous cell types , including the glia and neurons of the peripheral and enteric nervous systems and the melanocytes of the skin and hair . Mutations in genes and genetic pathways regulating NC development lead to a wide spectrum of human developmental disorders collectively called neurocristopathies . To identify molecular pathways regulating NC development and to understand how alterations in these processes lead to disease , we established an N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea ( ENU ) mutagenesis screen utilizing a mouse model sensitized for NC defects , Sox10LacZ/+ . Out of 71 pedigrees analyzed , we identified and mapped four heritable loci , called modifier of Sox10 expression pattern 1–4 ( msp1–4 ) , which show altered NC patterning . In homozygous msp1 embryos , Sox10LacZ expression is absent in cranial ganglia , cranial nerves , and the sympathetic chain; however , the development of other Sox10-expressing
Numerous factors may influence Schistosoma infection intensity and prevalence within endemic communities , including exposure-related factors such as local environment and behaviour , and factors relating to susceptibility to infection such as immunology and genetics . While animal studies performed in the laboratory can be tightly controlled , human populations are highly heterogeneous , varying according to demographic characteristics , genetic background and exposure to infection . The heterogeneous nature of human water contact behaviour in particular makes it difficult to distinguish between a lack of cercarial exposure and reduced susceptibility to infection as the cause for low levels of infection in the field . In this study we investigate risk factors for Schistosoma mansoni infection in a rural Ugandan fishing community receiving treatment as part of a multi-disciplinary longitudinal reinfection study . More specifically , we examine the influence that age , sex and ethnic ba
Stool examination by counting eggs per gram of feces ( EPGs ) is the best method to estimate worm burden of Clonorchis sinensis in infected humans . The present study investigated a correlation between EPGs and worm burden in human clonorchiasis . A total of 60 residents , 50 egg-positive and 10 egg-negative , in Sancheong-gun , Korea , participated in this worm collection trial in 2006–2009 . They were diagnosed by egg positivity in feces using the Kato-Katz method . After administration of praziquantel , they were purged with cathartics on the next day , and then discharged adult worms were collected from their feces . Their EPGs ranged from 0 to 65 , 544 . Adult worms of C . sinensis were collected from 17 egg-positive cases , and the number of worms ranged from 1 to 114 in each individual . A positive correlation between EPGs and numbers of worms was demonstrated ( r = 0 . 681 , P<0 . 001 ) . Worm recovery rates were 9 . 7% in cases of EPGs 1–1 , 000 and 73 . 7% in those of EPGs ov
Drug resistance is a rapidly emerging concern , thus prompting the development of novel therapeutics or combinatorial therapy . Currently , combinatorial therapy targets are based on knowledge of drug mode of action and/or resistance mechanisms , constraining the number of target proteins . Unbiased genome-wide screens could reveal novel genetic components within interaction networks as potential targets in combination therapies . Testing this , in the context of antimicrobial resistance , we implemented an unbiased genome-wide screen , performed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae expressing a Candida glabrata PDR1+ gain-of-function allele . Gain-of-function mutations in this gene are the principal mediators of fluconazole resistance in this human fungal pathogen . Eighteen synthetically lethal S . cerevisiae genetic mutants were identified in cells expressing C . glabrata PDR1+ . One mutant , lacking the histone acetyltransferase Gcn5 , was investigated further . Deletion or drug-mediated in
At the culmination of poliovirus ( PV ) multiplication , membranes are observed that contain phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate ( PI4P ) and appear as vesicular clusters in cross section . Induction and remodeling of PI4P and membranes prior to or concurrent with genome replication has not been well studied . Here , we exploit two PV mutants , termed EG and GG , which exhibit aberrant proteolytic processing of the P3 precursor that substantially delays the onset of genome replication and/or impairs virus assembly , to illuminate the pathway of formation of PV-induced membranous structures . For WT PV , changes to the PI4P pool were observed as early as 30 min post-infection . PI4P remodeling occurred even in the presence of guanidine hydrochloride , a replication inhibitor , and was accompanied by formation of membrane tubules throughout the cytoplasm . Vesicular clusters appeared in the perinuclear region of the cell at 3 h post-infection , a time too slow for these structures to be res
A multi-step cascade strategy using integrated ligand- and target-based virtual screening methods was developed to select a small number of compounds from the ZINC database to be evaluated for trypanocidal activity . Winnowing the database to 23 selected compounds , 12 non-covalent binding cruzain inhibitors with affinity values ( Ki ) in the low micromolar range ( 3–60 µM ) acting through a competitive inhibition mechanism were identified . This mechanism has been confirmed by determining the binding mode of the cruzain inhibitor Nequimed176 through X-ray crystallographic studies . Cruzain , a validated therapeutic target for new chemotherapy for Chagas disease , also shares high similarity with the mammalian homolog cathepsin L . Because increased activity of cathepsin L is related to invasive properties and has been linked to metastatic cancer cells , cruzain inhibitors from the same library were assayed against it . Affinity values were in a similar range ( 4–80 µM ) , yielding poo
Attenuated yellow fever ( YF ) virus 17D/17DD vaccines are the only available protection from YF infection , which remains a significant source of morbidity and mortality in the tropical areas of the world . The attenuated YF virus vaccine , which is used worldwide , generates both long-lasting neutralizing antibodies and strong T-cell responses . However , on rare occasions , this vaccine has toxic side effects that can be fatal . This study presents the design of two non-viral DNA-based antigen formulations and the characterization of their expression and immunological properties . The two antigen formulations consist of DNA encoding the full-length envelope protein ( p/YFE ) or the full-length envelope protein fused to the lysosomal-associated membrane protein signal , LAMP-1 ( pL/YFE ) , aimed at diverting antigen processing/presentation through the major histocompatibility complex II precursor compartments . The immune responses triggered by these formulations were evaluated in H2
Chitin utilization by the cholera pathogen Vibrio cholerae is required for its persistence and evolution via horizontal gene transfer in the marine environment . Genes involved in the uptake and catabolism of the chitin disaccharide chitobiose are encoded by the chb operon . The orphan sensor kinase ChiS is critical for regulation of this locus , however , the mechanisms downstream of ChiS activation that result in expression of the chb operon are poorly understood . Using an unbiased transposon mutant screen , we uncover that the nucleoid occlusion protein SlmA is a regulator of the chb operon . SlmA has not previously been implicated in gene regulation . Also , SlmA is a member of the TetR family of proteins , which are generally transcriptional repressors . In vitro , we find that SlmA binds directly to the chb operon promoter , and in vivo , we show that this interaction is required for transcriptional activation of this locus and for chitobiose utilization . Using point mutations 
We present a nonlinear programming ( NLP ) framework for the scalable solution of parameter estimation problems that arise in dynamic modeling of biological systems . Such problems are computationally challenging because they often involve highly nonlinear and stiff differential equations as well as many experimental data sets and parameters . The proposed framework uses cutting-edge modeling and solution tools which are computationally efficient , robust , and easy-to-use . Specifically , our framework uses a time discretization approach that: i ) avoids repetitive simulations of the dynamic model , ii ) enables fully algebraic model implementations and computation of derivatives , and iii ) enables the use of computationally efficient nonlinear interior point solvers that exploit sparse and structured linear algebra techniques . We demonstrate these capabilities by solving estimation problems for synthetic human gut microbiome community models . We show that an instance with 156 para
The ability to track changes in gene expression following viral infection is paramount to understanding viral pathogenesis . This study was undertaken to evaluate the nCounter , a high throughput digital gene expression system , as a means to better understand West Nile virus ( WNV ) dissemination and the inflammatory response against WNV in the outbred Swiss Webster ( SW ) mouse model over the course of infection . The nCounter Mouse Inflammation gene expression kit containing 179 inflammation related genes was used to analyze gene expression changes in multiple tissues over a nine day course of infection in SW mice following intraperitoneal injection with WNV . Protein expression levels for a subset of these cytokine/chemokine genes were determined using a multiplex protein detection system ( BioPlex ) and comparisons of protein/RNA expression levels made . Expression analysis of spleen , lung , liver , kidney and brain of SW mice infected with WNV revealed that Cxcl10 and Il12b are 
In Mozambique , the majority of rabies outbreaks are unreported and data on the epidemiological features of human rabies and animal bites are scarce . An outbreak of human rabies in adjacent Maputo and Matola cities in 2014 prompted us to investigate the epidemiology , clinical features and risk factors of human rabies and animal bites in the two cities . We reviewed cases of human rabies and animal bites from April to July 2014 , and carried out a community investigation in July and August in the neighborhoods where cases of human rabies resided . This investigation included collection of clinical , demographic and epidemiological information and a case control study to investigate the risk factors associated with human rabies . Fourteen cases of human rabies were detected in Maputo ( n = 10 ) and Matola ( n = 3 ) cities and neighbouring Boane district ( n = 1 ) between April and August 2014 , all of whom had been admitted to hospital . All had a recent history of dog bite . Of the 14
A follow-up study of a large Utah family with significant linkage to chromosome 2q24 led us to identify a new febrile seizure ( FS ) gene , SCN9A encoding Nav1 . 7 . In 21 affected members , we uncovered a potential mutation in a highly conserved amino acid , p . N641Y , in the large cytoplasmic loop between transmembrane domains I and II that was absent from 586 ethnically matched population control chromosomes . To establish a functional role for this mutation in seizure susceptibility , we introduced the orthologous mutation into the murine Scn9a ortholog using targeted homologous recombination . Compared to wild-type mice , homozygous Scn9aN641Y/N641Y knockin mice exhibit significantly reduced thresholds to electrically induced clonic and tonic-clonic seizures , and increased corneal kindling acquisition rates . Together , these data strongly support the SCN9A p . N641Y mutation as disease-causing in this family . To confirm the role of SCN9A in FS , we analyzed a collection of 92 
A major problem in biology is to understand how complex tissue shapes may arise through growth . In many cases this process involves preferential growth along particular orientations raising the question of how these orientations are specified . One view is that orientations are specified through stresses in the tissue ( axiality-based system ) . Another possibility is that orientations can be specified independently of stresses through molecular signalling ( polarity-based system ) . The axiality-based system has recently been explored through computational modelling . Here we develop and apply a polarity-based system which we call the Growing Polarised Tissue ( GPT ) framework . Tissue is treated as a continuous material within which regionally expressed factors under genetic control may interact and propagate . Polarity is established by signals that propagate through the tissue and is anchored in regions termed tissue polarity organisers that are also under genetic control . Rates 
During early human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) infection multiple CD8+ T cell responses are elicited almost simultaneously . These responses exert strong selective pressures on different parts of HIV’s genome , and select for mutations that escape recognition and are thus beneficial to the virus . Some studies reveal that the later these escape mutations emerge , the more slowly they go to fixation . This pattern of escape rate decrease ( ERD ) can arise by distinct mechanisms . In particular , in large populations with high beneficial mutation rates interference among different escape strains –an effect that can emerge in evolution with asexual reproduction and results in delayed fixation times of beneficial mutations compared to sexual reproduction– could significantly impact the escape rates of mutations . In this paper , we investigated how interference between these concurrent escape mutations affects their escape rates in systems with multiple epitopes , and whether it could b
The 5-year survival of non-small cell lung cancer patients can be as low as 1% in advanced stages . For patients with resectable disease , the successful choice of preoperative chemotherapy is critical to eliminate micrometastasis and improve operability . In silico experimentations can suggest the optimal treatment protocol for each patient based on their own multiscale data . A determinant for reliable predictions is the a priori estimation of the drugs’ cytotoxic efficacy on cancer cells for a given treatment . In the present work a mechanistic model of cancer response to treatment is applied for the estimation of a plausible value range of the cell killing efficacy of various cisplatin-based doublet regimens . Among others , the model incorporates the cancer related mechanism of uncontrolled proliferation , population heterogeneity , hypoxia and treatment resistance . The methodology is based on the provision of tumor volumetric data at two time points , before and after or during 
High levels of antibiotic tolerance are a hallmark of bacterial biofilms . In contrast to well-characterized inherited antibiotic resistance , molecular mechanisms leading to reversible and transient antibiotic tolerance displayed by biofilm bacteria are still poorly understood . The physiological heterogeneity of biofilms influences the formation of transient specialized subpopulations that may be more tolerant to antibiotics . In this study , we used random transposon mutagenesis to identify biofilm-specific tolerant mutants normally exhibited by subpopulations located in specialized niches of heterogeneous biofilms . Using Escherichia coli as a model organism , we demonstrated , through identification of amino acid auxotroph mutants , that starved biofilms exhibited significantly greater tolerance towards fluoroquinolone ofloxacin than their planktonic counterparts . We demonstrated that the biofilm-associated tolerance to ofloxacin was fully dependent on a functional SOS response u
All pathogenesis and death associated with Plasmodium falciparum malaria is due to parasite-infected erythrocytes . Invasion of erythrocytes by P . falciparum merozoites requires specific interactions between host receptors and parasite ligands that are localized in apical organelles called micronemes . Here , we identify cAMP as a key regulator that triggers the timely secretion of microneme proteins enabling receptor-engagement and invasion . We demonstrate that exposure of merozoites to a low K+ environment , typical of blood plasma , activates a bicarbonate-sensitive cytoplasmic adenylyl cyclase to raise cytosolic cAMP levels and activate protein kinase A , which regulates microneme secretion . We also show that cAMP regulates merozoite cytosolic Ca2+ levels via induction of an Epac pathway and demonstrate that increases in both cAMP and Ca2+ are essential to trigger microneme secretion . Our identification of the different elements in cAMP-dependent signaling pathways that regulat
The soil-transmitted threadworm , Strongyloides stercoralis , is one of the most neglected among the so-called neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) . We reviewed studies of the last 20 years on S . stercoralis's global prevalence in general populations and risk groups . A literature search was performed in PubMed for articles published between January 1989 and October 2011 . Articles presenting information on infection prevalence were included . A Bayesian meta-analysis was carried out to obtain country-specific prevalence estimates and to compare disease odds ratios in different risk groups taking into account the sensitivities of the diagnostic methods applied . A total of 354 studies from 78 countries were included for the prevalence calculations , 194 ( 62 . 4% ) were community-based studies , 121 ( 34 . 2% ) were hospital-based studies and 39 ( 11 . 0% ) were studies on refugees and immigrants . World maps with country data are provided . In numerous African , Asian and South-Amer
Stochastic noise at the cellular level has been shown to play a fundamental role in circadian oscillations , influencing how groups of cells entrain to external cues and likely serving as the mechanism by which cell-autonomous rhythms are generated . Despite this importance , few studies have investigated how clock perturbations affect stochastic noise—even as increasing numbers of high-throughput screens categorize how gene knockdowns or small molecules can change clock period and amplitude . This absence is likely due to the difficulty associated with measuring cell-autonomous stochastic noise directly , which currently requires the careful collection and processing of single-cell data . In this study , we show that the damping rate of population-level bioluminescence recordings can serve as an accurate measure of overall stochastic noise , and one that can be applied to future and existing high-throughput circadian screens . Using cell-autonomous fibroblast data , we first show dire
The recent increase in antibiotic resistance in pathogenic bacteria calls for new approaches to drug-target selection and drug development . Targeting the mechanisms of action of proteins involved in bacterial cell division bypasses problems associated with increasingly ineffective variants of older antibiotics; to this end , the essential bacterial cytoskeletal protein FtsZ is a promising target . Recent work on its allosteric inhibitor , PC190723 , revealed in vitro activity on Staphylococcus aureus FtsZ and in vivo antimicrobial activities . However , the mechanism of drug action and its effect on FtsZ in other bacterial species are unclear . Here , we examine the structural environment of the PC190723 binding pocket using PocketFEATURE , a statistical method that scores the similarity between pairs of small-molecule binding sites based on 3D structure information about the local microenvironment , and molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulations . We observed that species and nucleotide-b
Lens epithelium derived growth factor ( LEDGF ) , also known as PC4 and SFRS1 interacting protein 1 ( PSIP1 ) and transcriptional co-activator p75 , is the cellular binding partner of lentiviral integrase ( IN ) proteins . LEDGF accounts for the characteristic propensity of Lentivirus to integrate within active transcription units and is required for efficient viral replication . We now present a crystal structure containing the N-terminal and catalytic core domains ( NTD and CCD ) of HIV-2 IN in complex with the IN binding domain ( IBD ) of LEDGF . The structure extends the known IN–LEDGF interface , elucidating primarily charge–charge interactions between the NTD of IN and the IBD . A constellation of acidic residues on the NTD is characteristic of lentiviral INs , and mutations of the positively charged residues on the IBD severely affect interaction with all lentiviral INs tested . We show that the novel NTD–IBD contacts are critical for stimulation of concerted lentiviral DNA inte
Cells of different organs at different ages have an intrinsic set of kinetics that dictates their behavior . Transformation into cancer cells will inherit these kinetics that determine initial cell and tumor population progression dynamics . Subject to genetic mutation and epigenetic alterations , cancer cell kinetics can change , and favorable alterations that increase cellular fitness will manifest themselves and accelerate tumor progression . We set out to investigate the emerging intratumoral heterogeneity and to determine the evolutionary trajectories of the combination of cell-intrinsic kinetics that yield aggressive tumor growth . We develop a cellular automaton model that tracks the temporal evolution of the malignant subpopulation of so-called cancer stem cells ( CSC ) , as these cells are exclusively able to initiate and sustain tumors . We explore orthogonal cell traits , including cell migration to facilitate invasion , spontaneous cell death due to genetic drift after accu
Many zoonotic , novel infectious diseases in humans appear as sporadic infections with spatially and temporally restricted outbreaks , as seen with influenza A ( H5N1 ) . Adaptation is often a key factor for successfully establishing sustained human-to-human transmission . Here we use simple mathematical models to describe different adaptation scenarios with particular reference to spatial heterogeneity within the human population . We present analytical expressions for the probability of emergence per introduction , as well as the waiting time to a successful emergence event . Furthermore , we derive general analytical results for the statistical properties of emergence events , including the probability distribution of outbreak sizes . We compare our analytical results with a stochastic model , which has previously been studied computationally . Our results suggest that , for typical connection strengths between communities , spatial heterogeneity has only a weak effect on outbreak s
Wild birds have been implicated in the emergence of human and livestock influenza . The successful prediction of viral spread and disease emergence , as well as formulation of preparedness plans have been hampered by a critical lack of knowledge of viral movements between different host populations . The patterns of viral spread and subsequent risk posed by wild bird viruses therefore remain unpredictable . Here we analyze genomic data , including 287 newly sequenced avian influenza A virus ( AIV ) samples isolated over a 34-year period of continuous systematic surveillance of North American migratory birds . We use a Bayesian statistical framework to test hypotheses of viral migration , population structure and patterns of genetic reassortment . Our results reveal that despite the high prevalence of Charadriiformes infected in Delaware Bay this host population does not appear to significantly contribute to the North American AIV diversity sampled in Anseriformes . In contrast , influe
The hemagglutinin ( HA ) of influenza A viruses has been classified into sixteen distinct subtypes ( H1–H16 ) to date . The HA subtypes of influenza A viruses are principally defined as serotypes determined by neutralization or hemagglutination inhibition tests using polyclonal antisera to the respective HA subtypes , which have little cross-reactivity to the other HA subtypes . Thus , it is generally believed that the neutralizing antibodies are not broadly cross-reactive among HA subtypes . In this study , we generated a novel monoclonal antibody ( MAb ) specific to HA , designated MAb S139/1 , which showed heterosubtypic cross-reactive neutralization and hemagglutination inhibition of influenza A viruses . This MAb was found to have broad reactivity to many other viruses ( H1 , H2 , H3 , H5 , H9 , and H13 subtypes ) in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays . We further found that MAb S139/1 showed neutralization and hemagglutination-inhibition activities against particular strains of H
To assess the effect of treatment with ivermectin on the prevalence of S . stercoralis infection in an Australian Aboriginal population over a three year period , and to assess the validity of using a lower ELISA cut-off in diagnosis . A three-year cohort study of 259 adult Australian Aboriginals living in a remote community in northern Australia . S stercoralis infection was diagnosed using commercial ELISA testing , and employed a lower threshold for treatment than that recommended . Follow up was conducted at 6 months and 3 years following ivermectin treatment . Treatment with ivermectin was highly effective and resulted in a sustained fall in the prevalence of infection in the study group ( Initial prevalence 35 . 3% , 3 year prevalence 5 . 8% , McNemar’s chi2 = 56 . 5 , p<0 . 001 ) . Results of treatment suggested use of a lower ELISA threshold for treatment was valid in this setting . Follow up identified a small group of subjects with persistently positive ELISA serology despite
Prion diseases are caused by a misfolded isoform of the prion protein , PrPSc . Prion strains are hypothesized to be encoded by strain-specific conformations of PrPSc and prions can interfere with each other when a long-incubation period strain ( i . e . blocking strain ) inhibits the conversion of a short-incubation period strain ( i . e . non-blocking ) . Prion strain interference influences prion strain dynamics and the emergence of a strain from a mixture; however , it is unknown if two long-incubation period strains can interfere with each other . Here , we show that co-infection of animals with combinations of long-incubation period strains failed to identify evidence of strain interference . To exclude the possibility that this inability of strains to interfere in vivo was due to a failure to infect common populations of neurons we used protein misfolding cyclic amplification strain interference ( PMCAsi ) . Consistent with the animal bioassay studies , PMCAsi indicated that bot
Intrinsically disordered proteins/regions ( IDPs/IDRs ) are prevalent in allosteric regulation . It was previously thought that intrinsic disorder is favorable for maximizing the allosteric coupling . Here , we propose a comprehensive ensemble model to compare the roles of both order-order transition and disorder-order transition in allosteric effect . It is revealed that the MWC pathway ( order-order transition ) has a higher probability than the EAM pathway ( disorder-order transition ) in allostery , suggesting a complicated role of IDPs/IDRs in regulatory proteins . In addition , an analytic formula for the maximal allosteric coupling response is obtained , which shows that too stable or too unstable state is unfavorable to endow allostery , and is thus helpful for rational design of allosteric drugs . 
Prostate cancer is a major cause of male death in the Western world , but few frequent genetic alterations that drive prostate cancer initiation and progression have been identified . β-Catenin is essential for many developmental processes and has been implicated in tumorigenesis in many tissues , including prostate cancer . However , expression studies on human prostate cancer samples are unclear on the role this protein plays in this disease . We have used in vivo genetic studies in the embryo and adult to extend our understanding of the role of β-Catenin in the normal and neoplastic prostate . Our gene deletion analysis revealed that prostate epithelial β-Catenin is required for embryonic prostate growth and branching but is dispensable in the normal adult organ . During development , β-Catenin controls the number of progenitors in the epithelial buds and regulates a discrete network of genes , including c-Myc and Nkx3 . 1 . Deletion of β-Catenin in a Pten deleted model of castratio
Currently there is increasing recognition of the need for research in developing countries where disease burden is high . Understanding the role of local factors is important for undertaking ethical research in developing countries . We explored factors relating to information and communication during the process of informed consent , and the approach that should be followed for gaining consent . The study was conducted prior to a family-based genetic study among people with podoconiosis ( non-filarial elephantiasis ) in southern Ethiopia . We adapted a method of rapid assessment validated in The Gambia . The methodology was entirely qualitative , involving focus-group discussions and in-depth interviews . Discussions were conducted with podoconiosis patients and non-patients in the community , fieldworkers , researchers , staff of the local non-governmental organisation ( NGO ) working on prevention and treatment of podoconiosis , and community leaders . We found that the extent of us
Cell proliferation is the common characteristic of all biological systems . The immune system insures the maintenance of body integrity on the basis of a continuous production of diversified T lymphocytes in the thymus . This involves processes of proliferation , differentiation , selection , death and migration of lymphocytes to peripheral tissues , where proliferation also occurs upon antigen recognition . Quantification of cell proliferation dynamics requires specific experimental methods and mathematical modelling . Here , we assess the impact of genetics and aging on the immune system by investigating the dynamics of proliferation of T lymphocytes across their differentiation through thymus and spleen in mice . Our investigation is based on single-cell multicolour flow cytometry analysis revealing the active incorporation of a thymidine analogue during S phase after pulse-chase-pulse experiments in vivo , versus cell DNA content . A generic mathematical model of state transition s
About half of the mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) mutations causing diseases in humans occur in tRNA genes . Particularly intriguing are those pathogenic tRNA mutations than can reach homoplasmy and yet show very different penetrance among patients . These mutations are scarce and , in addition to their obvious interest for understanding human pathology , they can be excellent experimental examples to model evolution and fixation of mitochondrial tRNA mutations . To date , the only source of this type of mutations is human patients . We report here the generation and characterization of the first mitochondrial tRNA pathological mutation in mouse cells , an m . 3739G>A transition in the mitochondrial mt-Ti gene . This mutation recapitulates the molecular hallmarks of a disease-causing mutation described in humans , an m . 4290T>C transition affecting also the human mt-Ti gene . We could determine that the pathogenic molecular mechanism , induced by both the mouse and the human mutations , i
In mammals , dosage compensation is achieved by doubling expression of X-linked genes in both sexes , together with X inactivation in females . Up-regulation of the active X chromosome may be controlled by DNA sequence–based and/or epigenetic mechanisms that double the X output potentially in response to autosomal factor ( s ) . To determine whether X expression is adjusted depending on ploidy , we used expression arrays to compare X-linked and autosomal gene expression in human triploid cells . While the average X:autosome expression ratio was about 1 in normal diploid cells , this ratio was lower ( 0 . 81–0 . 84 ) in triploid cells with one active X and higher ( 1 . 32–1 . 4 ) in triploid cells with two active X's . Thus , overall X-linked gene expression in triploid cells does not strictly respond to an autosomal factor , nor is it adjusted to achieve a perfect balance . The unbalanced X:autosome expression ratios that we observed could contribute to the abnormal phenotypes associat
Evolutionary pressures on proteins are often quantified by the ratio of substitution rates at non-synonymous and synonymous sites . The dN/dS ratio was originally developed for application to distantly diverged sequences , the differences among which represent substitutions that have fixed along independent lineages . Nevertheless , the dN/dS measure is often applied to sequences sampled from a single population , the differences among which represent segregating polymorphisms . Here , we study the expected dN/dS ratio for samples drawn from a single population under selection , and we find that in this context , dN/dS is relatively insensitive to the selection coefficient . Moreover , the hallmark signature of positive selection over divergent lineages , dN/dS>1 , is violated within a population . For population samples , the relationship between selection and dN/dS does not follow a monotonic function , and so it may be impossible to infer selection pressures from dN/dS . These resul
A major goal in evolutionary biology is to understand how natural selection has shaped patterns of genetic variation across genomes . Studies in a variety of species have shown that neutral genetic diversity ( intra-species differences ) has been reduced at sites linked to those under direct selection . However , the effect of linked selection on neutral sequence divergence ( inter-species differences ) remains ambiguous . While empirical studies have reported correlations between divergence and recombination , which is interpreted as evidence for natural selection reducing linked neutral divergence , theory argues otherwise , especially for species that have diverged long ago . Here we address these outstanding issues by examining whether natural selection can affect divergence between both closely and distantly related species . We show that neutral divergence between closely related species ( e . g . human-primate ) is negatively correlated with functional content and positively cor
Phosphorylation is a pivotal regulatory mechanism for protein stability and activity in circadian clocks regardless of their evolutionary origin . It determines the speed and strength of molecular oscillations by acting on transcriptional activators and their repressors , which form negative feedback loops . In Drosophila , the CK2 kinase phosphorylates and destabilizes the PERIOD ( PER ) and TIMELESS ( TIM ) proteins , which inhibit CLOCK ( CLK ) transcriptional activity . Here we show that CK2 also targets the CLK activator directly . Downregulating the activity of the catalytic α subunit of CK2 induces CLK degradation , even in the absence of PER and TIM . Unexpectedly , the regulatory β subunit of the CK2 holoenzyme is not required for the regulation of CLK stability . In addition , downregulation of CK2α activity decreases CLK phosphorylation and increases per and tim transcription . These results indicate that CK2 inhibits CLK degradation while reducing its activity . Since the C
Trypanosoma cruzi is the etiological agent of Chagas' disease . Cysteine peptidases are relevant to several aspects of the T . cruzi life cycle and are implicated in parasite-mammalian host relationships . However , little is known about the factors that contribute to the parasite-insect host interaction . Here , we have investigated whether cruzipain could be involved in the interaction of T . cruzi with the invertebrate host . We analyzed the effect of treatment of T . cruzi epimastigotes with anti-cruzipain antibodies or with a panel of cysteine peptidase inhibitors ( cystatin , antipain , E-64 , leupeptin , iodocetamide or CA-074-OMe ) on parasite adhesion to Rhodnius prolixus posterior midgut ex vivo . All treatments , with the exception of CA074-OMe , significantly decreased parasite adhesion to R . prolixus midgut . Cystatin presented a dose-dependent reduction on the adhesion . Comparison of the adhesion rate among several T . cruzi isolates revealed that the G isolate , which 
Cytoplasmic dynein is a microtubule-dependent motor protein that functions in mitotic cells during centrosome separation , metaphase chromosome congression , anaphase spindle elongation , and chromosome segregation . Dynein is also utilized during interphase for vesicle transport and organelle positioning . While numerous cellular processes require cytoplasmic dynein , the mechanisms that target and regulate this microtubule motor remain largely unknown . By screening a conditional Caenorhabditis elegans cytoplasmic dynein heavy chain mutant at a semipermissive temperature with a genome-wide RNA interference library to reduce gene functions , we have isolated and characterized twenty dynein-specific suppressor genes . When reduced in function , these genes suppress dynein mutants but not other conditionally mutant loci , and twelve of the 20 specific suppressors do not exhibit sterile or lethal phenotypes when their function is reduced in wild-type worms . Many of the suppressor protei
During somatic differentiation , physiological DNA double-strand breaks ( DSB ) can drive programmed genome rearrangements ( PGR ) , during which DSB repair pathways are mobilized to safeguard genome integrity . Because of their unique nuclear dimorphism , ciliates are powerful unicellular eukaryotic models to study the mechanisms involved in PGR . At each sexual cycle , the germline nucleus is transmitted to the progeny , but the somatic nucleus , essential for gene expression , is destroyed and a new somatic nucleus differentiates from a copy of the germline nucleus . In Paramecium tetraurelia , the development of the somatic nucleus involves massive PGR , including the precise elimination of at least 45 , 000 germline sequences ( Internal Eliminated Sequences , IES ) . IES excision proceeds through a cut-and-close mechanism: a domesticated transposase , PiggyMac , is essential for DNA cleavage , and DSB repair at excision sites involves the Ligase IV , a specific component of the no
Prion diseases typically have long pre-clinical incubation periods during which time the infectious prion particle and infectivity steadily propagate in the brain . Abnormal neuritic sprouting and synaptic deficits are apparent during pre-clinical disease , however , gross neuronal loss is not detected until the onset of the clinical phase . The molecular events that accompany early neuronal damage and ultimately conclude with neuronal death remain obscure . In this study , we used laser capture microdissection to isolate hippocampal CA1 neurons and determined their pre-clinical transcriptional response during infection . We found that gene expression within these neurons is dynamic and characterized by distinct phases of activity . We found that a major cluster of genes is altered during pre-clinical disease after which expression either returns to basal levels , or alternatively undergoes a direct reversal during clinical disease . Strikingly , we show that this cluster contains a si
Experimental visceral leishmaniasis , caused by infection of mice with the protozoan parasite Leishmania donovani , is characterized by focal accumulation of inflammatory cells in the liver , forming discrete “granulomas” within which the parasite is eventually eliminated . To shed new light on fundamental aspects of granuloma formation and function , we have developed an in silico Petri net model that simulates hepatic granuloma development throughout the course of infection . The model was extensively validated by comparison with data derived from experimental studies in mice , and the model robustness was assessed by a sensitivity analysis . The model recapitulated the progression of disease as seen during experimental infection and also faithfully predicted many of the changes in cellular composition seen within granulomas over time . By conducting in silico experiments , we have identified a previously unappreciated level of inter-granuloma diversity in terms of the development of
The transcriptional regulatory machinery of a gene can be viewed as a computational device , with transcription factor concentrations as inputs and expression level as the output . This view begs the question: what kinds of computations are possible ? We show that different parameterizations of a simple chemical kinetic model of transcriptional regulation are able to approximate all four standard arithmetic operations: addition , subtraction , multiplication , and division , as well as various equality and inequality operations . This contrasts with other studies that emphasize logical or digital notions of computation in biological networks . We analyze the accuracy and precision of these approximations , showing that they depend on different sets of parameters , and are thus independently tunable . We demonstrate that networks of these “arithmetic” genes can be combined to accomplish yet more complicated computations by designing and simulating a network that detects statistically si
Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) is an RNA virus from the Togaviridae family transmitted by mosquitoes in both sylvatic and urban cycles . In humans , CHIKV infection leads to a febrile illness , denominated Chikungunya fever ( CHIKF ) , commonly associated with more intense and debilitating outcomes . CHIKV arrived in Brazil in 2014 through two independent introductions: the Asian/Caribbean genotype entered through the North region and the African ECSA genotype was imported through the Northeast region . Following their initial introduction , both genotypes established their urban cycle among large naive human populations causing several outbreaks in the Americas . Here , we sequenced CHIKV genomes from a recent outbreak in the Northeast region of Brazil , employing an in-house developed Next-Generation Sequencing ( NGS ) protocol capable of directly detecting multiple known CHIKV genotypes from clinical positive samples . Our results demonstrate that both Asian/Caribbean and ECSA genotype
Horizontal acquisition of DNA by bacteria dramatically increases genetic diversity and hence successful bacterial colonization of several niches , including the human host . A relevant issue is how this newly acquired DNA interacts and integrates in the regulatory networks of the bacterial cell . The global modulator H-NS targets both core genome and HGT genes and silences gene expression in response to external stimuli such as osmolarity and temperature . Here we provide evidence that H-NS discriminates and differentially modulates core and HGT DNA . As an example of this , plasmid R27-encoded H-NS protein has evolved to selectively silence HGT genes and does not interfere with core genome regulation . In turn , differential regulation of both gene lineages by resident chromosomal H-NS requires a helper protein: the Hha protein . Tight silencing of HGT DNA is accomplished by H-NS-Hha complexes . In contrast , core genes are modulated by H-NS homoligomers . Remarkably , the presence of
Genome sequencing of Leishmania species that give rise to a range of disease phenotypes in the host has revealed highly conserved gene content and synteny across the genus . Only a small number of genes are differentially distributed between the three species sequenced to date , L . major , L . infantum and L . braziliensis . It is not yet known how many of these genes are expressed in the disease-promoting intracellular amastigotes of these species or whether genes conserved between the species are differentially expressed in the host . We have used customised oligonucleotide microarrays to confirm that all of the differentially distributed genes identified by genome comparisons are expressed in intracellular amastigotes , with only a few of these subject to regulation at the RNA level . In the first large-scale study of gene expression in L . braziliensis , we show that only ∼9% of the genes analysed are regulated in their RNA expression during the L . braziliensis life cycle , a fig
Amphimeriasis is a fish-borne disease caused by the liver fluke Amphimerus spp . that has recently been reported as endemic in the tropical Pacific side of Ecuador with a high prevalence in humans and domestic animals . The diagnosis is based on the stool examination to identify parasite eggs , but it lacks sensitivity . Additionally , the morphology of the eggs may be confounded with other liver and intestinal flukes . No immunological or molecular methods have been developed to date . New diagnostic techniques for specific and sensitive detection of Amphimerus spp . DNA in clinical samples are needed . A LAMP targeting a sequence of the Amphimerus sp . internal transcribed spacer 2 region was designed . Amphimerus sp . DNA was obtained from adult worms recovered from animals and used to optimize the molecular assays . Conventional PCR was performed using outer primers F3-B3 to verify the proper amplification of the Amphimerus sp . DNA target sequence . LAMP was optimized using differ
The autophagosomal SNARE Syntaxin17 ( Syx17 ) forms a complex with Snap29 and Vamp7/8 to promote autophagosome-lysosome fusion via multiple interactions with the tethering complex HOPS . Here we demonstrate that , unexpectedly , one more SNARE ( Ykt6 ) is also required for autophagosome clearance in Drosophila . We find that loss of Ykt6 leads to large-scale accumulation of autophagosomes that are unable to fuse with lysosomes to form autolysosomes . Of note , loss of Syx5 , the partner of Ykt6 in ER-Golgi trafficking does not prevent autolysosome formation , pointing to a more direct role of Ykt6 in fusion . Indeed , Ykt6 localizes to lysosomes and autolysosomes , and forms a SNARE complex with Syx17 and Snap29 . Interestingly , Ykt6 can be outcompeted from this SNARE complex by Vamp7 , and we demonstrate that overexpression of Vamp7 rescues the fusion defect of ykt6 loss of function cells . Finally , a point mutant form with an RQ amino acid change in the zero ionic layer of Ykt6 pro
Antimicrobial peptides ( AMPs ) contribute to host innate immune defense and are a critical component to control bacterial infection . Nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae ( NTHI ) is a commensal inhabitant of the human nasopharyngeal mucosa , yet is commonly associated with opportunistic infections of the upper and lower respiratory tracts . An important aspect of NTHI virulence is the ability to avert bactericidal effects of host-derived antimicrobial peptides ( AMPs ) . The Sap ( sensitivity to antimicrobial peptides ) ABC transporter equips NTHI to resist AMPs , although the mechanism of this resistance has remained undefined . We previously determined that the periplasmic binding protein SapA bound AMPs and was required for NTHI virulence in vivo . We now demonstrate , by antibody-mediated neutralization of AMP in vivo , that SapA functions to directly counter AMP lethality during NTHI infection . We hypothesized that SapA would deliver AMPs to the Sap inner membrane complex for tra
Several key transcription factors have unusually short half-lives compared to other cellular proteins . Here , we explore the utility of active degradation in shaping how the multiple antibiotic resistance activator MarA coordinates its downstream targets . MarA controls a variety of stress response genes in Escherichia coli . We modify its half-life either by knocking down the protease that targets it via CRISPRi or by engineering MarA to protect it from degradation . Our experimental and analytical results indicate that active degradation can impact both the rate of coordination and the maximum coordination that downstream genes can achieve . In the context of multi-gene regulation , trade-offs between these properties show that perfect information fidelity and instantaneous coordination cannot coexist . 
We have recently demonstrated that MAP kinase phosphatase 2 ( MKP-2 ) deficient C57BL/6 mice , unlike their wild-type counterparts , are unable to control infection with the protozoan parasite Leishmania mexicana . Increased susceptibility was associated with elevated Arginase-1 levels and reduced iNOS activity in macrophages as well as a diminished TH1 response . By contrast , in the present study footpad infection of MKP-2−/− mice with L . major resulted in a healing response as measured by lesion size and parasite numbers similar to infected MKP-2+/+ mice . Analysis of immune responses following infection demonstrated a reduced TH1 response in MKP-2−/− mice with lower parasite specific serum IgG2b levels , a lower frequency of IFN-γ and TNF-α producing CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and lower antigen stimulated spleen cell IFN-γ production than their wild-type counterparts . However , infected MKP-2−/− mice also had similarly reduced levels of antigen induced spleen and lymph node cell IL-4 
The mammalian pancreas is a branched organ that does not exhibit stereotypic branching patterns , similarly to most other glands . Inside branches , it contains a network of ducts that undergo a transition from unconnected microlumen to a mesh of interconnected ducts and finally to a treelike structure . This ductal remodeling is poorly understood , both on a microscopic and macroscopic level . In this article , we quantify the network properties at different developmental stages . We find that the pancreatic network exhibits stereotypic traits at each stage and that the network properties change with time toward the most economical and optimized delivery of exocrine products into the duodenum . Using in silico modeling , we show how steps of pancreatic network development can be deconstructed into two simple rules likely to be conserved for many other glands . The early stage of the network is explained by noisy , redundant duct connection as new microlumens form . The later transitio
Kinesin motor proteins drive intracellular transport by coupling ATP hydrolysis to conformational changes that mediate directed movement along microtubules . Characterizing these distinct conformations and their interconversion mechanism is essential to determining an atomic-level model of kinesin action . Here we report a comprehensive principal component analysis of 114 experimental structures along with the results of conventional and accelerated molecular dynamics simulations that together map the structural dynamics of the kinesin motor domain . All experimental structures were found to reside in one of three distinct conformational clusters ( ATP-like , ADP-like and Eg5 inhibitor-bound ) . These groups differ in the orientation of key functional elements , most notably the microtubule binding α4–α5 , loop8 subdomain and α2b-β4-β6-β7 motor domain tip . Group membership was found not to correlate with the nature of the bound nucleotide in a given structure . However , groupings wer
The bacterial Lux system is used as a gene expression reporter . It is fast , sensitive and non-destructive , enabling high frequency measurements . Originally developed for bacterial cells , it has also been adapted for eukaryotic cells , and can be used for whole cell biosensors , or in real time with live animals without the need for euthanasia . However , correct interpretation of bioluminescent data is limited: the bioluminescence is different from gene expression because of nonlinear molecular and enzyme dynamics of the Lux system . We have developed a computational approach that , for the first time , allows users of Lux assays to infer gene transcription levels from the light output . This approach is based upon a new mathematical model for Lux activity , that includes the actions of LuxAB , LuxEC and Fre , with improved mechanisms for all reactions , as well as synthesis and turn-over of Lux proteins . The model is calibrated with new experimental data for the LuxAB and Fre re
The replication of enterovirus 71 ( EV71 ) and coxsackievirus A16 ( CVA16 ) , which are the major cause of hand , foot and mouth disease ( HFMD ) in children , can be inhibited by the capsid binder GPP3 . Here , we present the crystal structure of CVA16 in complex with GPP3 , which clarifies the role of the key residues involved in interactions with the inhibitor . Based on this model , in silico docking was performed to investigate the interactions with the two next-generation capsid binders NLD and ALD , which we show to be potent inhibitors of a panel of enteroviruses with potentially interesting pharmacological properties . A meta-analysis was performed using the available structural information to obtain a deeper insight into those structural features required for capsid binders to interact effectively and also those that confer broad-spectrum anti-enterovirus activity . 
The humoral response to fungal and Gram-positive infections is regulated by the serpin-family inhibitor , Necrotic . Following immune-challenge , a proteolytic cascade is activated which signals through the Toll receptor . Toll activation results in a range of antibiotic peptides being synthesised in the fat-body and exported to the haemolymph . As with mammalian serpins , Necrotic turnover in Drosophila is rapid . This serpin is synthesised in the fat-body , but its site of degradation has been unclear . By “freezing” endocytosis with a temperature sensitive Dynamin mutation , we demonstrate that Necrotic is removed from the haemolymph in two groups of giant cells: the garland and pericardial athrocytes . Necrotic uptake responds rapidly to infection , being visibly increased after 30 mins and peaking at 6–8 hours . Co-localisation of anti-Nec with anti-AP50 , Rab5 , and Rab7 antibodies establishes that the serpin is processed through multi-vesicular bodies and delivered to the lysoso
Nodal and BMP signals are important for establishing left-right ( LR ) asymmetry in vertebrates . In sea urchins , Nodal signaling prevents the formation of the rudiment on the right side . However , the opposing pathway to Nodal signaling during LR axis establishment is not clear . Here , we revealed that BMP signaling is activated in the left coelomic pouch , specifically in the veg2 lineage , but not in the small micromeres . By perturbing BMP activities , we demonstrated that BMP signaling is required for activating the expression of the left-sided genes and the formation of the left-sided structures . On the other hand , Nodal signals on the right side inhibit BMP signaling and control LR asymmetric separation and apoptosis of the small micromeres . Our findings show that BMP signaling is the positive signal for left-sided development in sea urchins , suggesting that the opposing roles of Nodal and BMP signals in establishing LR asymmetry are conserved in deuterostomes . 
The onset of human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) lytic infection is strictly synchronized with the host cell cycle . Infected G0/G1 cells support viral immediate early ( IE ) gene expression and proceed to the G1/S boundary where they finally arrest . In contrast , S/G2 cells can be infected but effectively block IE gene expression and this inhibition is not relieved until host cells have divided and reentered G1 . During latent infection IE gene expression is also inhibited , and for reactivation to occur this block to IE gene expression must be overcome . It is only poorly understood which viral and/or cellular activities maintain the block to cell cycle or latency-associated viral IE gene repression and whether the two mechanisms may be linked . Here , we show that the block to IE gene expression during S and G2 phase can be overcome by both genotoxic stress and chemical inhibitors of cellular DNA replication , pointing to the involvement of checkpoint-dependent signaling pathways in con
The majority of HIV-1 elite controllers ( EC ) restrict HIV-1 replication through highly functional HIV-1-specific T cell responses , but mechanisms supporting the evolution of effective HIV-1-specific T cell immunity in these patients remain undefined . Cytosolic immune recognition of HIV-1 in conventional dendritic cells ( cDC ) can facilitate priming and expansion of HIV-1-specific T cells; however , HIV-1 seems to be able to avoid intracellular immune recognition in cDCs in most infected individuals . Here , we show that exposure of cDCs from EC to HIV-1 leads to a rapid and sustained production of type I interferons and upregulation of several interferon-stimulated effector genes . Emergence of these cell-intrinsic immune responses was associated with a reduced induction of SAMHD1 and LEDGF/p75 , and an accumulation of viral reverse transcripts , but inhibited by pharmacological blockade of viral reverse transcription or siRNA-mediated silencing of the cytosolic DNA sensor cGAS . 
Obesity has a strong genetic component , but few of the genes that predispose to obesity are known . Genetic screens in invertebrates have the potential to identify genes and pathways that regulate the levels of stored fat , many of which are likely to be conserved in humans . To facilitate such screens , we have developed a simple buoyancy-based screening method for identifying mutant Drosophila larvae with increased levels of stored fat . Using this approach , we have identified 66 genes that when mutated increase organismal fat levels . Among these was a sirtuin family member , Sir2 . Sirtuins regulate the storage and metabolism of carbohydrates and lipids by deacetylating key regulatory proteins . However , since mammalian sirtuins function in many tissues in different ways , it has been difficult to define their role in energy homeostasis accurately under normal feeding conditions . We show that knockdown of Sir2 in the larval fat body results in increased fat levels . Moreover , 
Asymmetric cell division is essential to generate cellular diversity . In many animal cells , the cleavage plane lies perpendicular to the mitotic spindle , and it is the spindle positioning that dictates the size of the daughter cells . Although some properties of spindle positioning are conserved between distantly related model species and different cell types , little is known of the evolutionary robustness of the mechanisms underlying this event . We recorded the first embryonic division of 42 species of nematodes closely related to Caenorhabditis elegans , which is an excellent model system to study the biophysical properties of asymmetric spindle positioning . Our recordings , corresponding to 128 strains from 27 Caenorhabditis and 15 non-Caenorhabditis species ( accessible at http://www . ens-lyon . fr/LBMC/NematodeCell/videos/ ) , constitute a powerful collection of subcellular phenotypes to study the evolution of various cellular processes across species . In the present work 
The evolution of new gene networks is a primary source of genetic innovation that allows bacteria to explore and exploit new niches , including pathogenic interactions with host organisms . For example , the archetypal DNA binding protein , OmpR , is identical between Salmonella Typhimurium serovar Typhimurium and Escherichia coli , but regulatory specialization has resulted in different environmental triggers of OmpR expression and largely divergent OmpR regulons . Specifically , ompR mRNA and OmpR protein levels are elevated by acid pH in S . Typhimurium but not in E . coli . This differential expression pattern is due to differences in the promoter regions of the ompR genes and the E . coli ompR orthologue can be made acid-inducible by introduction of the appropriate sequences from S . Typhimurium . The OmpR regulon in S . Typhimurium overlaps that of E . coli at only 15 genes and includes many horizontally acquired genes ( including virulence genes ) that E . coli does not have . W
Sequence analysis of the genome of the strict intracellular pathogen Chlamydia trachomatis revealed the presence of a SET domain containing protein , proteins that primarily function as histone methyltransferases . In these studies , we demonstrated secretion of this protein via a type III secretion mechanism . During infection , the protein is translocated to the host cell nucleus and associates with chromatin . We therefore named the protein nuclear effector ( NUE ) . Expression of NUE in mammalian cells by transfection reconstituted nuclear targeting and chromatin association . In vitro methylation assays confirmed NUE is a histone methyltransferase that targets histones H2B , H3 and H4 and itself ( automethylation ) . Mutants deficient in automethylation demonstrated diminished activity towards histones suggesting automethylation functions to enhance enzymatic activity . Thus , NUE is secreted by Chlamydia , translocates to the host cell nucleus and has enzymatic activity towards e
Stature is a classical and highly heritable complex trait , with 80%–90% of variation explained by genetic factors . In recent years , genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) have successfully identified many common additive variants influencing human height; however , little attention has been given to the potential role of recessive genetic effects . Here , we investigated genome-wide recessive effects by an analysis of inbreeding depression on adult height in over 35 , 000 people from 21 different population samples . We found a highly significant inverse association between height and genome-wide homozygosity , equivalent to a height reduction of up to 3 cm in the offspring of first cousins compared with the offspring of unrelated individuals , an effect which remained after controlling for the effects of socio-economic status , an important confounder ( χ2 = 83 . 89 , df = 1; p = 5 . 2×10−20 ) . There was , however , a high degree of heterogeneity among populations: whereas the d
Monocyte ( MO ) subpopulations display distinct phenotypes and functions which can drastically change during inflammatory states . We hypothesized that discrete MO subpopulations are induced during malaria infection and associated with anti-parasitic activity . We characterized the phenotype of blood MO from healthy malaria-exposed individuals and that of patients with acute uncomplicated malaria by flow cytometry . In addition , MO defense function was evaluated by an in vitro antibody dependent cellular inhibition ( ADCI ) assay . At the time of admission , the percentages and absolute numbers of CD16+ MO , and CCR2+CX3CR1+ MO , were high in a majority of patients . Remarkably , expression of CCR2 and CX3CR1 on the CD14high ( hi ) MO subset defined two subgroups of patients that also differed significantly in their functional ability to limit the parasite growth , through the ADCI mechanism . In the group of patients with the highest percentages and absolute numbers of CD14hiCCR2+CX3
Schistosoma mansoni infection has been associated with an increased HIV prevalence in humans and SHIV incidence in primate models . We hypothesized that immune activation from this gastrointestinal mucosa infection would increase highly HIV-susceptible CD4 T cell subsets in the blood and the foreskin through common mucosal homing . Foreskin tissue and blood were obtained from 34 HIV- and malaria-uninfected Ugandan men who volunteered for elective circumcision , 12 of whom were definitively positive for S . mansoni eggs in stool and 12 definitively negative for both S . mansoni eggs and worm antigen . Tissue and blood T cell subsets were characterized by flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry ( IHC ) . Th17 and Th1 cells from both the blood and foreskin expressed higher levels of CCR5 and were more activated than other CD4 T cell subsets . S . mansoni-infected men had a higher frequency of systemic Th1 cells ( 22 . 9 vs . 16 . 5% of blood CD4 T cells , p<0 . 05 ) , Th17 cells ( 2 . 3 v
Filarial nematodes maintain a mutualistic relationship with the endosymbiont Wolbachia . Depletion of Wolbachia produces profound defects in nematode development , fertility and viability and thus has great promise as a novel approach for treating filarial diseases . However , little is known concerning the basis for this mutualistic relationship . Here we demonstrate using whole mount confocal microscopy that an immediate response to Wolbachia depletion is extensive apoptosis in the adult germline , and in the somatic cells of the embryos , microfilariae and fourth-stage larvae ( L4 ) . Surprisingly , apoptosis occurs in the majority of embryonic cells that had not been infected prior to antibiotic treatment . In addition , no apoptosis occurs in the hypodermal chords , which are populated with large numbers of Wolbachia , although disruption of the hypodermal cytoskeleton occurs following their depletion . Thus , the induction of apoptosis upon Wolbachia depletion is non-cell autonom
The malaria-causing blood stage of Plasmodium falciparum requires extracellular pantothenate for proliferation . The parasite converts pantothenate into coenzyme A ( CoA ) via five enzymes , the first being a pantothenate kinase ( PfPanK ) . Multiple antiplasmodial pantothenate analogues , including pantothenol and CJ-15 , 801 , kill the parasite by targeting CoA biosynthesis/utilisation . Their mechanism of action , however , remains unknown . Here , we show that parasites pressured with pantothenol or CJ-15 , 801 become resistant to these analogues . Whole-genome sequencing revealed mutations in one of two putative PanK genes ( Pfpank1 ) in each resistant line . These mutations significantly alter PfPanK activity , with two conferring a fitness cost , consistent with Pfpank1 coding for a functional PanK that is essential for normal growth . The mutants exhibit a different sensitivity profile to recently-described , potent , antiplasmodial pantothenate analogues , with one line being 
The PR interval on the electrocardiogram reflects atrial and atrioventricular nodal conduction time . The PR interval is heritable , provides important information about arrhythmia risk , and has been suggested to differ among human races . Genome-wide association ( GWA ) studies have identified common genetic determinants of the PR interval in individuals of European and Asian ancestry , but there is a general paucity of GWA studies in individuals of African ancestry . We performed GWA studies in African American individuals from four cohorts ( n = 6 , 247 ) to identify genetic variants associated with PR interval duration . Genotyping was performed using the Affymetrix 6 . 0 microarray . Imputation was performed for 2 . 8 million single nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs ) using combined YRI and CEU HapMap phase II panels . We observed a strong signal ( rs3922844 ) within the gene encoding the cardiac sodium channel ( SCN5A ) with genome-wide significant association ( p<2 . 5×10−8 ) in 
Tomato mosaic virus ( ToMV ) , like other eukaryotic positive-strand RNA viruses , replicates its genomic RNA in replication complexes formed on intracellular membranes . Previous studies showed that a host seven-pass transmembrane protein TOM1 is necessary for efficient ToMV multiplication . Here , we show that a small GTP-binding protein ARL8 , along with TOM1 , is co-purified with a FLAG epitope-tagged ToMV 180K replication protein from solubilized membranes of ToMV-infected tobacco ( Nicotiana tabacum ) cells . When solubilized membranes of ToMV-infected tobacco cells that expressed FLAG-tagged ARL8 were subjected to immunopurification with anti-FLAG antibody , ToMV 130K and 180K replication proteins and TOM1 were co-purified and the purified fraction showed RNA-dependent RNA polymerase activity that transcribed ToMV RNA . From uninfected cells , TOM1 co-purified with FLAG-tagged ARL8 less efficiently , suggesting that a complex containing ToMV replication proteins , TOM1 , and ARL
Inhibitory interneurons play critical roles in shaping the firing patterns of principal neurons in many brain systems . Despite difference in the anatomy or functions of neuronal circuits containing inhibition , two basic motifs repeatedly emerge: feed-forward and feedback . In the locust , it was proposed that a subset of lateral horn interneurons ( LHNs ) , provide feed-forward inhibition onto Kenyon cells ( KCs ) to maintain their sparse firing—a property critical for olfactory learning and memory . But recently it was established that a single inhibitory cell , the giant GABAergic neuron ( GGN ) , is the main and perhaps sole source of inhibition in the mushroom body , and that inhibition from this cell is mediated by a feedback ( FB ) loop including KCs and the GGN . To clarify basic differences in the effects of feedback vs . feed-forward inhibition in circuit dynamics we here use a model of the locust olfactory system . We found both inhibitory motifs were able to maintain spars
The definitive diagnosis of lyssavirus infection ( including rabies ) in animals and humans is based on laboratory confirmation . The reference techniques for post-mortem rabies diagnosis are still based on direct immunofluorescence and virus isolation , but molecular techniques , such as polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) based methods , are increasingly being used and now constitute the principal tools for diagnosing rabies in humans and for epidemiological analyses . However , it remains a key challenge to obtain relevant specificity and sensitivity with these techniques while ensuring that the genetic diversity of lyssaviruses does not compromise detection . We developed a dual combined real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction ( combo RT-qPCR ) method for pan-lyssavirus detection . This method is based on two complementary technologies: a probe-based ( TaqMan ) RT-qPCR for detecting the RABV species ( pan-RABV RT-qPCR ) and a second reaction using an intercalating d
An outbreak of tsetse-transmitted trypanosomiasis resulted in more than 50% losses of domestic pigs in the Eastern Region of Ghana ( source: Veterinary Services , Accra; April 2007 ) . In a control trial from May 4th–October 10th 2007 , the efficacy of insecticide-treated mosquito fences to control tsetse was assessed . Two villages were selected – one serving as control with 14 pigsties and one experimental village where 24 pigsties were protected with insecticide treated mosquito fences . The 100 cm high , 150denier polyester fences with 100 mg/m2 deltamethrin and a UV protector were attached to surrounding timber poles and planks . Bi-monthly monitoring of tsetse densities with 10 geo-referenced bi-conical traps per village showed a reduction of more than 90% in the protected village within two months . Further reductions exceeding 95% were recorded during subsequent months . The tsetse population in the control village was not affected , only displaying seasonal variations . Fifty 
There is a growing movement to encourage reproducibility and transparency practices in the scientific community , including public access to raw data and protocols , the conduct of replication studies , systematic integration of evidence in systematic reviews , and the documentation of funding and potential conflicts of interest . In this survey , we assessed the current status of reproducibility and transparency addressing these indicators in a random sample of 441 biomedical journal articles published in 2000–2014 . Only one study provided a full protocol and none made all raw data directly available . Replication studies were rare ( n = 4 ) , and only 16 studies had their data included in a subsequent systematic review or meta-analysis . The majority of studies did not mention anything about funding or conflicts of interest . The percentage of articles with no statement of conflict decreased substantially between 2000 and 2014 ( 94 . 4% in 2000 to 34 . 6% in 2014 ) ; the percentage 
Inhalation of Yersinia pestis causes primary pneumonic plague , a highly lethal syndrome with mortality rates approaching 100% . Pneumonic plague progression is biphasic , with an initial pre-inflammatory phase facilitating bacterial growth in the absence of host inflammation , followed by a pro-inflammatory phase marked by extensive neutrophil influx , an inflammatory cytokine storm , and severe tissue destruction . Using a FRET-based probe to quantitate injection of effector proteins by the Y . pestis type III secretion system , we show that these bacteria target alveolar macrophages early during infection of mice , followed by a switch in host cell preference to neutrophils . We also demonstrate that neutrophil influx is unable to limit bacterial growth in the lung and is ultimately responsible for the severe inflammation during the lethal pro-inflammatory phase . 
One of the most important drawbacks in visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) population studies is the difficulty of diagnosing asymptomatic carriers . The aim of this study , conducted in an urban area in the Southeast of Brazil , was to evaluate the performance of serology to identify asymptomatic VL infection in participants selected from a cohort with a two-year follow-up period . Blood samples were collected in 2001 from 136 cohort participants ( 97 positive and 39 negatives , PCR/hybridization carried out in 1999 ) . They were clinically evaluated and none had progressed to disease from their asymptomatic state . As controls , blood samples from 22 control individuals and 8 patients with kala-azar were collected . Two molecular biology techniques ( reference tests ) were performed: PCR with Leishmania-generic primer followed by hybridization using L . infantum probe , and PCR with specific primer to L . donovani complex . Plasma samples were tested by ELISA using three different antigens
Retrotransposons are highly prevalent in mammalian genomes due to their ability to amplify in pluripotent cells or developing germ cells . Host mechanisms that silence retrotransposons in germ cells and pluripotent cells are important for limiting the accumulation of the repetitive elements in the genome during evolution . However , although silencing of selected individual retrotransposons can be relatively well-studied , many mammalian retrotransposons are seldom analysed and their silencing in germ cells , pluripotent cells or somatic cells remains poorly understood . Here we show , and experimentally verify , that cryptic repetitive element probes present in Illumina and Affymetrix gene expression microarray platforms can accurately and sensitively monitor repetitive element expression data . This computational approach to genome-wide retrotransposon expression has allowed us to identify the histone deacetylase Hdac1 as a component of the retrotransposon silencing machinery in mous
Arabidopsis thaliana cryptochrome 2 ( CRY2 ) mediates light control of flowering time . CIB1 ( CRY2-interacting bHLH 1 ) specifically interacts with CRY2 in response to blue light to activate the transcription of FT ( Flowering Locus T ) . In vitro , CIB1 binds to the canonical E-box ( CACGTG , also referred to as G-box ) with much higher affinity than its interaction with non-canonical E-box ( CANNTG ) DNA sequences . However , in vivo , CIB1 binds to the chromatin region of the FT promoter , which only contains the non-canonical E-box sequences . Here , we show that CRY2 also interacts with at least CIB5 , in response to blue light , but not in darkness or in response to other wavelengths of light . Our genetic analysis demonstrates that CIB1 , CIB2 , CIB4 , and CIB5 act redundantly to activate the transcription of FT and that they are positive regulators of CRY2 mediated flowering . More importantly , CIB1 and other CIBs proteins form heterodimers , and some of the heterodimers have
Many U . S . -bound refugees travel from countries where intestinal parasites ( hookworm , Trichuris trichuria , Ascaris lumbricoides , and Strongyloides stercoralis ) are endemic . These infections are rare in the United States and may be underdiagnosed or misdiagnosed , leading to potentially serious consequences . This evaluation examined the costs and benefits of combinations of overseas presumptive treatment of parasitic diseases vs . domestic screening/treating vs . no program . An economic decision tree model terminating in Markov processes was developed to estimate the cost and health impacts of four interventions on an annual cohort of 27 , 700 U . S . -bound Asian refugees: 1 ) “No Program , ” 2 ) U . S . “Domestic Screening and Treatment , ” 3 ) “Overseas Albendazole and Ivermectin” presumptive treatment , and 4 ) “Overseas Albendazole and Domestic Screening for Strongyloides” . Markov transition state models were used to estimate long-term effects of parasitic infections . 
Microbial pathogens often establish infection within particular niches of their host for replication . Determining how infection occurs preferentially in specific host tissues is a key aspect of understanding host-microbe interactions . Here , we describe the discovery of a natural microsporidian parasite of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans that displays a unique tissue tropism compared to previously described parasites of this host . We characterize the life cycle of this new species , Nematocida displodere , including pathogen entry , intracellular replication , and exit . N . displodere can invade multiple host tissues , including the epidermis , muscle , neurons , and intestine of C . elegans . Despite robust invasion of the intestine very little replication occurs there , with the majority of replication occurring in the muscle and epidermis . This feature distinguishes N . displodere from two closely related microsporidian pathogens , N . parisii and N . sp . 1 , which exclusi
The Cockayne syndrome complementation group B ( CSB ) protein is essential for transcription-coupled DNA repair , and mutations in CSB are associated with Cockayne syndrome—a devastating disease with complex clinical features , including the appearance of premature aging , sun sensitivity , and numerous neurological and developmental defects . CSB belongs to the SWI2/SNF2 ATP–dependent chromatin remodeler family , but the extent to which CSB remodels chromatin and whether this activity is utilized in DNA repair is unknown . Here , we show that CSB repositions nucleosomes in an ATP–dependent manner in vitro and that this activity is greatly enhanced by the NAP1-like histone chaperones , which we identify as new CSB–binding partners . By mapping functional domains and analyzing CSB derivatives , we demonstrate that chromatin remodeling by the combined activities of CSB and the NAP1-like chaperones is required for efficient transcription-coupled DNA repair . Moreover , we show that chroma
While population studies have resulted in detailed maps of genetic variation in humans , to date there are few robust maps of epigenetic variation . We identified sites containing clusters of CpGs with high inter-individual epigenetic variation , termed Variably Methylated Regions ( VMRs ) in five purified cell types . We observed that VMRs occur preferentially at enhancers and 3’ UTRs . While the majority of VMRs have high heritability , a subset of VMRs within the genome show highly correlated variation in trans , forming co-regulated networks that have low heritability , differ between cell types and are enriched for specific transcription factor binding sites and biological pathways of functional relevance to each tissue . For example , in T cells we defined a network of 95 co-regulated VMRs enriched for genes with roles in T-cell activation; in fibroblasts a network of 34 co-regulated VMRs comprising all four HOX gene clusters enriched for control of tissue growth; and in neurons 
Serological tests for IgM and IgG are routinely used in clinical laboratories for the rapid diagnosis of dengue and can differentiate between primary and secondary infections . Dengue virus non-structural protein 1 ( NS1 ) has been identified as an early marker for acute dengue , and is typically present between days 1–9 post-onset of illness but following seroconversion it can be difficult to detect in serum . To evaluate the performance of a newly developed Panbio® Dengue Early Rapid test for NS1 and determine if it can improve diagnostic sensitivity when used in combination with a commercial IgM/IgG rapid test . The clinical performance of the Dengue Early Rapid was evaluated in a retrospective study in Vietnam with 198 acute laboratory-confirmed positive and 100 negative samples . The performance of the Dengue Early Rapid in combination with the IgM/IgG Rapid test was also evaluated in Malaysia with 263 laboratory-confirmed positive and 30 negative samples . In Vietnam the sensitiv
The prediction of functional RNA structures has attracted increased interest , as it allows us to study the potential functional roles of many genes . RNA structure prediction methods , however , assume that there is a unique functional RNA structure and also do not predict functional features required for in vivo folding . In order to understand how functional RNA structures form in vivo , we require sophisticated experiments or reliable prediction methods . So far , there exist only a few , experimentally validated transient RNA structures . On the computational side , there exist several computer programs which aim to predict the co-transcriptional folding pathway in vivo , but these make a range of simplifying assumptions and do not capture all features known to influence RNA folding in vivo . We want to investigate if evolutionarily related RNA genes fold in a similar way in vivo . To this end , we have developed a new computational method , Transat , which detects conserved helic
Plant immunity protects plants from numerous potentially pathogenic microbes . The biological network that controls plant inducible immunity must function effectively even when network components are targeted and disabled by pathogen effectors . Network buffering could confer this resilience by allowing different parts of the network to compensate for loss of one another’s functions . Networks rich in buffering rely on interactions within the network , but these mechanisms are difficult to study by simple genetic means . Through a network reconstitution strategy , in which we disassemble and stepwise reassemble the plant immune network that mediates Pattern-Triggered-Immunity , we have resolved systems-level regulatory mechanisms underlying the Arabidopsis transcriptome response to the immune stimulant flagellin-22 ( flg22 ) . These mechanisms show widespread evidence of interactions among major sub-networks—we call these sectors—in the flg22-responsive transcriptome . Many of these in
The central nervous system develops from monolayered neuroepithelial sheets . In a first step patterning mechanisms subdivide the seemingly uniform epithelia into domains allowing an increase of neuronal diversity in a tightly controlled spatial and temporal manner . In Drosophila , neuroepithelial patterning of the embryonic optic placode gives rise to the larval eye primordium , consisting of two photoreceptor ( PR ) precursor types ( primary and secondary ) , as well as the optic lobe primordium , which during larval and pupal stages develops into the prominent optic ganglia . Here , we characterize a genetic network that regulates the balance between larval eye and optic lobe precursors , as well as between primary and secondary PR precursors . In a first step the proneural factor Atonal ( Ato ) specifies larval eye precursors , while the orphan nuclear receptor Tailless ( Tll ) is crucial for the specification of optic lobe precursors . The Hedgehog and Notch signaling pathways ac
Ever since the discovery of endogenous host defense antimicrobial peptides it has been discussed how these evolutionary conserved molecules avoid to induce resistance and to remain effective . Human ß-defensin 1 ( hBD1 ) is an ubiquitously expressed endogenous antimicrobial peptide that exhibits qualitatively distinct activities between its oxidized and reduced forms . Here , we explore these antimicrobial mechanisms . Surprisingly , using electron microscopy we detected a so far unknown net-like structure surrounding bacteria , which were treated with the reduced but not the oxidized form of hBD1 . A transmigration assay demonstrated that hBD1-derived nets capture bacteria and inhibit bacterial transmigration independent of bacterial killing . The presence of nets could completely prevent migration of hBD1 resistant pathogens and are stable in the presence of human duodenal secretion with a high amount of proteases . In contrast to HD6 , cysteins are necessary for net formation . This
Lowe syndrome and Dent-2 disease are caused by mutation of the inositol 5-phosphatase OCRL1 . Despite our increased understanding of the cellular functions of OCRL1 , the underlying basis for the renal tubulopathy seen in both human disorders , of which a hallmark is low molecular weight proteinuria , is currently unknown . Here , we show that deficiency in OCRL1 causes a defect in endocytosis in the zebrafish pronephric tubule , a model for the mammalian renal tubule . This coincides with a reduction in levels of the scavenger receptor megalin and its accumulation in endocytic compartments , consistent with reduced recycling within the endocytic pathway . We also observe reduced numbers of early endocytic compartments and enlarged vacuolar endosomes in the sub-apical region of pronephric cells . Cell polarity within the pronephric tubule is unaffected in mutant embryos . The OCRL1-deficient embryos exhibit a mild ciliogenesis defect , but this cannot account for the observed impairmen
In recent years , evidence of Rift Valley fever ( RVF ) transmission during inter-epidemic periods in parts of Africa has increasingly been reported . The inter-epidemic transmissions generally pass undetected where there is no surveillance in the livestock or human populations . We studied the presence of and the determinants for inter-epidemic RVF transmission in an area experiencing annual flooding in southern Tanzania . A cross-sectional sero-survey was conducted in randomly selected cattle , sheep and goats in the Kilombero river valley from May to August 2011 , approximately four years after the 2006/07 RVF outbreak in Tanzania . The exposure status to RVF virus ( RVFV ) was determined using two commercial ELISA kits , detecting IgM and IgG antibodies in serum . Information about determinants was obtained through structured interviews with herd owners . An overall seroprevalence of 11 . 3% ( n = 1680 ) was recorded; 5 . 5% in animals born after the 2006/07 RVF outbreak and 22 . 7
Trypanosoma cruzi is the etiologic agent of Chagas disease . Although this is not a free-living organism it has conserved a contractile vacuole complex ( CVC ) to regulate its osmolarity . This obligate intracellular pathogen is , in addition , dependent on surface proteins to invade its hosts . Here we used a combination of genetic and biochemical approaches to delineate the contribution of the CVC to the traffic of glycosylphosphatidylinositol ( GPI ) -anchored proteins to the plasma membrane of the parasite and promote host invasion . While T . cruzi Rab11 ( GFP-TcRab11 ) localized to the CVC , a dominant negative ( DN ) mutant tagged with GFP ( GFP-TcRab11DN ) localized to the cytosol , and epimastigotes expressing this mutant were less responsive to hyposmotic and hyperosmotic stress . Mutant parasites were still able to differentiate into metacyclic forms and infect host cells . GPI-anchored trans-sialidase ( TcTS ) , mucins of the 60–200 KDa family , and trypomastigote small sur
This phase III clinical trial compared the immunogenicity and safety of a purified chick-embryo cell rabies vaccine ( PCECV ) administered according to a shortened post-exposure prophylaxis ( PEP ) 4-site/1-week intradermal regimen , compared with the currently recommended 2-site/Thai Red Cross ( TRC ) regimen . This controlled , open-label , multi-center study ( NCT02177032 ) enrolled healthy individuals ≥1 year of age , randomized into 4 groups to receive intradermal PCECV according to one of the 2 regimens , with or without human rabies immunoglobulin ( HRIG ) administration at first visit ( in adults only ) . Rabies virus neutralizing antibody ( RVNA ) concentrations and percentages of participants with RVNA concentrations ≥0 . 5 IU/mL ( considered as adequate concentrations following PEP ) were assessed up to day ( D ) 365 post-first vaccination . Non-inferiority of the 4-site/1-week regimen to the 2-site/TRC regimen was demonstrated if at D49 , the lower limit of the 95% confiden
One of the most fundamental features of the human brain is its ability to detect and attend to salient goal-relevant events in a flexible manner . The salience network ( SN ) , anchored in the anterior insula and the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex , plays a crucial role in this process through rapid detection of goal-relevant events and facilitation of access to appropriate cognitive resources . Here , we leverage the subsecond resolution of large multisession fMRI datasets from the Human Connectome Project and apply novel graph-theoretical techniques to investigate the dynamic spatiotemporal organization of the SN . We show that the large-scale brain dynamics of the SN are characterized by several distinctive and robust properties . First , the SN demonstrated the highest levels of flexibility in time-varying connectivity with other brain networks , including the frontoparietal network ( FPN ) , the cingulate–opercular network ( CON ) , and the ventral and dorsal attention networks 
Nonenveloped viruses are generally released by the timely lysis of the host cell by a poorly understood process . For the nonenveloped virus SV40 , virions assemble in the nucleus and then must be released from the host cell without being encapsulated by cellular membranes . This process appears to involve the well-controlled insertion of viral proteins into host cellular membranes rendering them permeable to large molecules . VP4 is a newly identified SV40 gene product that is expressed at late times during the viral life cycle that corresponds to the time of cell lysis . To investigate the role of this late expressed protein in viral release , water-soluble VP4 was expressed and purified as a GST fusion protein from bacteria . Purified VP4 was found to efficiently bind biological membranes and support their disruption . VP4 perforated membranes by directly interacting with the membrane bilayer as demonstrated by flotation assays and the release of fluorescent markers encapsulated int
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is spread through most tropical and subtropical areas of the world and represents a serious public health problem . At present , the control of dengue disease is mainly hampered by the absence of antivirals or a vaccine , which results in an estimated half worldwide population at risk of infection . The immune response against DENV is not yet fully understood and a better knowledge of it is now recognized as one of the main challenge for vaccine development . In previous studies , we reported that a DNA vaccine containing the signal peptide sequence from the human tissue plasminogen activator ( t-PA ) fused to the DENV2 NS1 gene ( pcTPANS1 ) induced protection against dengue in mice . In the present work , we aimed to elucidate the contribution of cellular and humoral responses elicited by this vaccine candidate for protective immunity . We observed that pcTPANS1 exerts a robust protection against dengue , inducing considerable levels of anti-NS1 antibodies and T 
In Gram-positive bacteria , cell-to-cell communication mainly relies on extracellular signaling peptides , which elicit a response either indirectly , by triggering a two-component phosphorelay , or directly , by binding to cytoplasmic effectors . The latter comprise the RNPP family ( Rgg and original regulators Rap , NprR , PrgX and PlcR ) , whose members regulate important bacterial processes such as sporulation , conjugation , and virulence . RNPP proteins are increasingly considered as interesting targets for the development of new antibacterial agents . These proteins are characterized by a TPR-type peptide-binding domain , and except for Rap proteins , also contain an N-terminal HTH-type DNA-binding domain and display a transcriptional activity . Here , we elucidate the structure-function relationship of the transcription factor ComR , a new member of the RNPP family , which positively controls competence for natural DNA transformation in streptococci . ComR is directly activated
While the pentameric ligand-gated ion channel ELIC has recently provided first insight into the architecture of the family at high resolution , its detailed investigation was so far prevented by the fact that activating ligands were unknown . Here we describe a study on the functional characterization of ELIC by electrophysiology and X-ray crystallography . ELIC is activated by a class of primary amines that include the neurotransmitter GABA at high micro- to millimolar concentrations . The ligands bind to a conserved site and evoke currents that slowly desensitize over time . The protein forms cation selective channels with properties that resemble the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor . The high single channel conductance and the comparably simple functional behavior make ELIC an attractive model system to study general mechanisms of ion conduction and gating in this important family of neurotransmitter receptors . 
Asthma is a common allergic lung disease frequently affecting individuals with a prior history of eczema/atopic dermatitis ( AD ) ; however , the mechanism underlying the progression from AD to asthma ( the so-called “atopic march” ) is unclear . Here we show that , like humans with AD , mice with skin-barrier defects develop AD-like skin inflammation and are susceptible to allergic asthma . Furthermore , we show that thymic stromal lymphopoietin ( TSLP ) , overexpressed by skin keratinocytes , is the systemic driver of this bronchial hyper-responsiveness . As an AD-like model , we used mice with keratinocyte-specific deletion of RBP-j that sustained high systemic levels of TSLP . Antigen-induced allergic challenge to the lung airways of RBP-j–deficient animals resulted in a severe asthmatic phenotype not seen in similarly treated wild-type littermates . Elimination of TSLP signaling in these animals blocked the atopic march , demonstrating that high serum TSLP levels were required to 
The generation of genome-scale data is becoming more routine , yet the subsequent analysis of omics data remains a significant challenge . Here , an approach that integrates multiple omics datasets with bioinformatics tools was developed that produces a detailed annotation of several microbial genomic features . This methodology was used to characterize the genome of Thermotoga maritima—a phylogenetically deep-branching , hyperthermophilic bacterium . Experimental data were generated for whole-genome resequencing , transcription start site ( TSS ) determination , transcriptome profiling , and proteome profiling . These datasets , analyzed in combination with bioinformatics tools , served as a basis for the improvement of gene annotation , the elucidation of transcription units ( TUs ) , the identification of putative non-coding RNAs ( ncRNAs ) , and the determination of promoters and ribosome binding sites . This revealed many distinctive properties of the T . maritima genome organizat
Visual object recognition and sensitivity to image features are largely influenced by contextual inputs . We study influences by contextual bars on the bias to perceive or infer the presence of a target bar , rather than on the sensitivity to image features . Human observers judged from a briefly presented stimulus whether a target bar of a known orientation and shape is present at the center of a display , given a weak or missing input contrast at the target location with or without a context of other bars . Observers are more likely to perceive a target when the context has a weaker rather than stronger contrast . When the context can perceptually group well with the would-be target , weak contrast contextual bars bias the observers to perceive a target relative to the condition without contexts , as if to fill in the target . Meanwhile , high-contrast contextual bars , regardless of whether they group well with the target , bias the observers to perceive no target . A Bayesian model
Cooperation based on the production of costly common goods is observed throughout nature . This is puzzling , as cooperation is vulnerable to exploitation by defectors which enjoy a fitness advantage by consuming the common good without contributing fairly . Depletion of the common good can lead to population collapse and the destruction of cooperation . However , population collapse implies small population size , which , in a structured population , is known to favor cooperation . This happens because small population size increases variability in cooperator frequency across different locations . Since individuals in cooperator-dominated locations ( which are most likely cooperators ) will grow more than those in defector-dominated locations ( which are most likely defectors ) , cooperators can outgrow defectors globally despite defectors outgrowing cooperators in each location . This raises the possibility that defectors can lead to conditions that sometimes rescue cooperation from 
For opportunistic pathogens such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa , the mucosal barrier represents a formidable challenge . Infections develop only in patients with altered epithelial barriers . Here , we showed that P . aeruginosa interacts with a polarized epithelium , adhering almost exclusively at sites of multi-cellular junctions . In these sites , numerous bacteria attach to an extruded apoptotic cell or apoptotic body . This dead cell tropism is independent of the type of cell death , as P . aeruginosa also binds to necrotic cells . We further showed that P . aeruginosa is internalized through efferocytosis , a process in which surrounding epithelial cells engulf and dispose of extruded apoptotic cells . Intracellularly , along with apoptotic cell debris , P . aeruginosa inhabits an efferocytic phagosome that acquires lysosomal features , and is finally killed . We propose that elimination of P . aeruginosa through efferocytosis is part of a host defense mechanism . Our findings could 
The Drosophila embryonic gonad is assembled from two distinct cell types , the Primordial Germ Cells ( PGCs ) and the Somatic Gonadal Precursor cells ( SGPs ) . The PGCs form at the posterior of blastoderm stage embryos and are subsequently carried inside the embryo during gastrulation . To reach the SGPs , the PGCs must traverse the midgut wall and then migrate through the mesoderm . A combination of local repulsive cues and attractive signals emanating from the SGPs guide migration . We have investigated the role of the hedgehog ( hh ) pathway gene shifted ( shf ) in directing PGC migration . shf encodes a secreted protein that facilitates the long distance transmission of Hh through the proteoglycan matrix after it is released from basolateral membranes of Hh expressing cells in the wing imaginal disc . shf is expressed in the gonadal mesoderm , and loss- and gain-of-function experiments demonstrate that it is required for PGC migration . Previous studies have established that the h
If future HIV vaccine design strategies are to succeed , improved understanding of the mechanisms underlying protection from infection or immune control over HIV replication remains essential . Increased cytotoxic capacity of HIV-specific CD8+ T-cells associated with efficient elimination of HIV-infected CD4+ T-cell targets has been shown to distinguish long-term nonprogressors ( LTNP ) , patients with durable control over HIV replication , from those experiencing progressive disease . Here , measurements of granzyme B target cell activity and HIV-1-infected CD4+ T-cell elimination were applied for the first time to identify antiviral activities in recipients of a replication incompetent adenovirus serotype 5 ( Ad5 ) HIV-1 recombinant vaccine and were compared with HIV-negative individuals and chronically infected patients , including a group of LTNP . We observed readily detectable HIV-specific CD8+ T-cell recall cytotoxic responses in vaccinees at a median of 331 days following the l
There is evidence that the sharing of intentions was an important factor in the evolution of humans’ unique cognitive abilities . Here , for the first time , we formally model the coevolution of jointly intentional behavior and cumulative culture , showing that rapid techno-cultural advance goes hand in hand with the emergence of the ability to participate in jointly intentional behavior . Conversely , in the absence of opportunities for significant techno-cultural improvement , the ability to undertake jointly intentional behavior is selected against . Thus , we provide a unified mechanism for the suppression or emergence of shared intentions and collaborative behavior in humans , as well as a potential cause of inter-species diversity in the prevalence of such behavior . 
Male fertility requires the continuous production of high quality motile spermatozoa in abundance . Alterations in all three metrics cause oligoasthenoteratozoospermia , the leading cause of human sub/infertility . Post-mitotic spermatogenesis inclusive of several meiotic stages and spermiogenesis ( terminal spermatozoa differentiation ) are transcriptionally inert , indicating the potential importance for the post-transcriptional microRNA ( miRNA ) gene-silencing pathway therein . We found the expression of miRNA generating enzyme Dicer within spermatogenesis peaks in meiosis with critical functions in spermatogenesis . In an expression screen we identified two miRNA loci of the miR-34 family ( miR-34b/c and miR-449 ) that are specifically and highly expressed in post-mitotic male germ cells . A reduction in several miRNAs inclusive of miR-34b/c in spermatozoa has been causally associated with reduced fertility in humans . We found that deletion of both miR34b/c and miR-449 loci resul
Although Escherichia coli Nissle 1917 ( EcN ) has been used therapeutically for over a century , the determinants of its probiotic properties remain elusive . EcN produces two siderophore-microcins ( Mcc ) responsible for an antagonistic activity against other Enterobacteriaceae . EcN also synthesizes the genotoxin colibactin encoded by the pks island . Colibactin is a virulence factor and a putative pro-carcinogenic compound . Therefore , we aimed to decouple the antagonistic activity of EcN from its genotoxic activity . We demonstrated that the pks-encoded ClbP , the peptidase that activates colibactin , is required for the antagonistic activity of EcN . The analysis of a series of ClbP mutants revealed that this activity is linked to the transmembrane helices of ClbP and not the periplasmic peptidase domain , indicating the transmembrane domain is involved in some aspect of Mcc biosynthesis or secretion . A single amino acid substitution in ClbP inactivates the genotoxic activity bu
Cryptococcus neoformans , an AIDS-defining opportunistic pathogen , is the leading cause of fungal meningitis worldwide and is responsible for hundreds of thousands of deaths annually . Cryptococcal glycans are required for fungal survival in the host and for pathogenesis . Most glycans are made in the secretory pathway , although the activated precursors for their synthesis , nucleotide sugars , are made primarily in the cytosol . Nucleotide sugar transporters are membrane proteins that solve this topological problem , by exchanging nucleotide sugars for the corresponding nucleoside phosphates . The major virulence factor of C . neoformans is an anti-phagocytic polysaccharide capsule that is displayed on the cell surface; capsule polysaccharides are also shed from the cell and impede the host immune response . Xylose , a neutral monosaccharide that is absent from model yeast , is a significant capsule component . Here we show that Uxt1 and Uxt2 are both transporters specific for the x
After many years of general neglect , interest has grown and efforts came under way for the mapping , control , surveillance , and eventual elimination of neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) . Disease risk estimates are a key feature to target control interventions , and serve as a benchmark for monitoring and evaluation . What is currently missing is a georeferenced global database for NTDs providing open-access to the available survey data that is constantly updated and can be utilized by researchers and disease control managers to support other relevant stakeholders . We describe the steps taken toward the development of such a database that can be employed for spatial disease risk modeling and control of NTDs . With an emphasis on schistosomiasis in Africa , we systematically searched the literature ( peer-reviewed journals and ‘grey literature’ ) , contacted Ministries of Health and research institutions in schistosomiasis-endemic countries for location-specific prevalence data a
Chronic helminth infections induce a Th2 immune shift and establish an immunoregulatory milieu . As both of these responses can suppress Th1 immunity , which is necessary for control of Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( MTB ) infection , we hypothesized that chronic helminth infections may exacerbate the course of MTB . Co-infection studies were conducted in cotton rats as they are the natural host for the filarial nematode Litomosoides sigmodontis and are an excellent model for human MTB . Immunogical responses , histological studies , and quantitative mycobacterial cultures were assessed two months after MTB challenge in cotton rats with and without chronic L . sigmodontis infection . Spleen cell proliferation and interferon gamma production in response to purified protein derivative were similar between co-infected and MTB-only infected animals . In contrast to our hypothesis , MTB loads and occurrence and size of lung granulomas were not increased in co-infected animals . These findings
Insects utilize diverse families of ion channels to respond to environmental cues and control mating , feeding , and the response to threats . Although degenerin/epithelial sodium channels ( DEG/ENaC ) represent one of the largest families of ion channels in Drosophila melanogaster , the physiological functions of these proteins are still poorly understood . We found that the DEG/ENaC channel ppk23 is expressed in a subpopulation of sexually dimorphic gustatory-like chemosensory bristles that are distinct from those expressing feeding-related gustatory receptors . Disrupting ppk23 or inhibiting activity of ppk23-expressing neurons did not alter gustatory responses . Instead , blocking ppk23-positive neurons or mutating the ppk23 gene delayed the initiation and reduced the intensity of male courtship . Furthermore , mutations in ppk23 altered the behavioral response of males to the female-specific aphrodisiac pheromone 7 ( Z ) , 11 ( Z ) -Heptacosadiene . Together , these data indicate 
Mitochondria from diverse phyla , including protozoa , fungi , higher plants , and humans , import tRNAs from the cytosol in order to ensure proper mitochondrial translation . Despite the broad occurrence of this process , our understanding of tRNA import mechanisms is fragmentary , and crucial questions about their regulation remain unanswered . In the unicellular green alga Chlamydomonas , a precise correlation was found between the mitochondrial codon usage and the nature and amount of imported tRNAs . This led to the hypothesis that tRNA import might be a dynamic process able to adapt to the mitochondrial genome content . By manipulating the Chlamydomonas mitochondrial genome , we introduced point mutations in order to modify its codon usage . We find that the codon usage modification results in reduced levels of mitochondrial translation as well as in subsequent decreased levels and activities of respiratory complexes . These effects are linked to the consequential limitations of 
Diabetes is an increasing problem worldwide; almost 30 million people , nearly 10% of the population , in the United States are diagnosed with diabetes . Another 84 million are prediabetic , and without intervention , up to 70% of these individuals may progress to type 2 diabetes . Current methods for quantifying blood glucose dysregulation in diabetes and prediabetes are limited by reliance on single-time-point measurements or on average measures of overall glycemia and neglect glucose dynamics . We have used continuous glucose monitoring ( CGM ) to evaluate the frequency with which individuals demonstrate elevations in postprandial glucose , the types of patterns , and how patterns vary between individuals given an identical nutrient challenge . Measurement of insulin resistance and secretion highlights the fact that the physiology underlying dysglycemia is highly variable between individuals . We developed an analytical framework that can group individuals according to specific patt
Mitogen-activated protein ( MAP ) kinase signaling cascades play important roles in the regulation of plant defense . The Raf-like MAP kinase kinase kinase ( MAPKKK ) EDR1 negatively regulates plant defense responses and cell death . However , how EDR1 functions , and whether it affects the regulation of MAPK cascades , are not well understood . Here , we showed that EDR1 negatively regulates the MKK4/MKK5-MPK3/MPK6 kinase cascade in Arabidopsis . We found that edr1 mutants have highly activated MPK3/MPK6 kinase activity and higher levels of MPK3/MPK6 proteins than wild type . EDR1 physically interacts with MKK4 and MKK5 , and this interaction requires the N-terminal domain of EDR1 . EDR1 also negatively affects MKK4/MKK5 protein levels . In addition , the mpk3 , mkk4 and mkk5 mutations suppress edr1-mediated resistance , and over-expression of MKK4 or MKK5 causes edr1-like resistance and mildew-induced cell death . Taken together , our data indicate that EDR1 physically associates wit
Infectious diseases are one of the primary healthcare problems worldwide , leading to millions of deaths annually . To develop effective control and prevention strategies , we need reliable computational tools to understand disease dynamics and to predict future cases . These computational tools can be used by policy makers to make more informed decisions . In this study , we developed a computational framework based on Gaussian processes to perform spatiotemporal prediction of infectious diseases and exploited the special structure of similarity matrices in our formulation to obtain a very efficient implementation . We then tested our framework on the problem of modeling Crimean–Congo hemorrhagic fever cases between years 2004 and 2015 in Turkey . We showed that our Gaussian process formulation obtained better results than two frequently used standard machine learning algorithms ( i . e . , random forests and boosted regression trees ) under temporal , spatial , and spatiotemporal pre
Rift Valley fever ( RVF ) is an important mosquito-borne viral zoonosis in Africa and the Middle East that causes human deaths and significant economic losses due to huge incidences of death and abortion among infected livestock . Outbreaks of RVF are sporadic and associated with both seasonal and socioeconomic effects . Here we propose an almost periodic three-patch model to investigate the transmission dynamics of RVF virus ( RVFV ) among ruminants with spatial movements . Our findings indicate that , in Northeastern Africa , human activities , including those associated with the Eid al Adha feast , along with a combination of climatic factors such as rainfall level and hydrological variations , contribute to the transmission and dispersal of the disease pathogen . Moreover , sporadic outbreaks may occur when the two events occur together: 1 ) abundant livestock are recruited into areas at risk from RVF due to the demand for the religious festival and 2 ) abundant numbers of mosquito
We assessed spatial and temporal changes in the occurrence of human anthrax in Azerbaijan during 1984 through 2010 . Data on livestock outbreaks , vaccination efforts , and human anthrax incidence during Soviet governance , post-Soviet governance , preemptive livestock vaccination were analyzed . To evaluate changes in the spatio-temporal distribution of anthrax , we used a combination of spatial analysis , cluster detection , and weighted least squares segmented regression . Results indicated an annual percent change in incidence of +11 . 95% from 1984 to 1995 followed by declining rate of −35 . 24% after the initiation of livestock vaccination in 1996 . Our findings also revealed geographic variation in the spatial distribution of reporting; cases were primarily concentrated in the west early in the study period and shifted eastward as time progressed . Over twenty years after the dissolution of the Soviet Union , the distribution of human anthrax in Azerbaijan has undergone marked c
Voltage-gated potassium ( KV ) channels are membrane proteins that respond to changes in membrane potential by enabling K+ ion flux across the membrane . Polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) induce channel opening by modulating the voltage-sensitivity , which can provide effective treatment against refractory epilepsy by means of a ketogenic diet . While PUFAs have been reported to influence the gating mechanism by electrostatic interactions to the voltage-sensor domain ( VSD ) , the exact PUFA-protein interactions are still elusive . In this study , we report on the interactions between the Shaker KV channel in open and closed states and a PUFA-enriched lipid bilayer using microsecond molecular dynamics simulations . We determined a putative PUFA binding site in the open state of the channel located at the protein-lipid interface in the vicinity of the extracellular halves of the S3 and S4 helices of the VSD . In particular , the lipophilic PUFA tail covered a wide range of non-speci
The protozoan parasite Cryptosporidium parvum is responsible for significant disease burden among children in developing countries . In addition Cryptosporidiosis can result in chronic and life-threatening enteritis in AIDS patients , and the currently available drugs lack efficacy in treating these severe conditions . The discovery and development of novel anti-cryptosporidial therapeutics has been hampered by the poor experimental tractability of this pathogen . While the genome sequencing effort has identified several intriguing new targets including a unique inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase ( IMPDH ) , pursuing these targets and testing inhibitors has been frustratingly difficult . Here we have developed a pipeline of tools to accelerate the in vivo screening of inhibitors of C . parvum IMPDH . We have genetically engineered the related parasite Toxoplasma gondii to serve as a model of C . parvum infection as the first screen . This assay provides crucial target validation and a
Tooth development is a highly heritable process which relates to other growth and developmental processes , and which interacts with the development of the entire craniofacial complex . Abnormalities of tooth development are common , with tooth agenesis being the most common developmental anomaly in humans . We performed a genome-wide association study of time to first tooth eruption and number of teeth at one year in 4 , 564 individuals from the 1966 Northern Finland Birth Cohort ( NFBC1966 ) and 1 , 518 individuals from the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children ( ALSPAC ) . We identified 5 loci at P<5×10−8 , and 5 with suggestive association ( P<5×10−6 ) . The loci included several genes with links to tooth and other organ development ( KCNJ2 , EDA , HOXB2 , RAD51L1 , IGF2BP1 , HMGA2 , MSRB3 ) . Genes at four of the identified loci are implicated in the development of cancer . A variant within the HOXB gene cluster associated with occlusion defects requiring orthodontic tre
The trisomy of human chromosome 21 ( Hsa21 ) , which causes Down syndrome ( DS ) , is the most common viable human aneuploidy . In contrast to trisomy , the complete monosomy ( M21 ) of Hsa21 is lethal , and only partial monosomy or mosaic monosomy of Hsa21 is seen . Both conditions lead to variable physiological abnormalities with constant intellectual disability , locomotor deficits , and altered muscle tone . To search for dosage-sensitive genes involved in DS and M21 phenotypes , we created two new mouse models: the Ts3Yah carrying a tandem duplication and the Ms3Yah carrying a deletion of the Hspa13-App interval syntenic with 21q11 . 2-q21 . 3 . Here we report that the trisomy and the monosomy of this region alter locomotion , muscle strength , mass , and energetic balance . The expression profiling of skeletal muscles revealed global changes in the regulation of genes implicated in energetic metabolism , mitochondrial activity , and biogenesis . These genes are downregulated in T
G protein-gated K+ channels ( GIRK; Kir3 ) , activated by Gβγ subunits derived from Gi/o proteins , regulate heartbeat and neuronal excitability and plasticity . Both neurotransmitter-evoked ( Ievoked ) and neurotransmitter-independent basal ( Ibasal ) GIRK activities are physiologically important , but mechanisms of Ibasal and its relation to Ievoked are unclear . We have previously shown for heterologously expressed neuronal GIRK1/2 , and now show for native GIRK in hippocampal neurons , that Ibasal and Ievoked are interrelated: the extent of activation by neurotransmitter ( activation index , Ra ) is inversely related to Ibasal . To unveil the underlying mechanisms , we have developed a quantitative model of GIRK1/2 function . We characterized single-channel and macroscopic GIRK1/2 currents , and surface densities of GIRK1/2 and Gβγ expressed in Xenopus oocytes . Based on experimental results , we constructed a mathematical model of GIRK1/2 activity under steady-state conditions bef
Plant-pathogenic Xanthomonas bacteria secrete transcription activator-like effectors ( TALEs ) into host cells , where they act as transcriptional activators on plant target genes to support bacterial virulence . TALEs have a unique modular DNA-binding domain composed of tandem repeats . Two amino acids within each tandem repeat , termed repeat-variable diresidues , bind to contiguous nucleotides on the DNA sequence and determine target specificity . In this paper , we propose a novel approach for TALE target prediction to identify potential virulence targets . Our approach accounts for recent findings concerning TALE targeting , including frame-shift binding by repeats of aberrant lengths , and the flexible strand orientation of target boxes relative to the transcription start of the downstream target gene . The computational model can account for dependencies between adjacent RVD positions . Model parameters are learned from the wealth of quantitative data that have been generated ov
24 , 189 are all the possible non-synonymous amino acid changes potentially affecting the human mitochondrial DNA . Only a tiny subset was functionally evaluated with certainty so far , while the pathogenicity of the vast majority was only assessed in-silico by software predictors . Since these tools proved to be rather incongruent , we have designed and implemented APOGEE , a machine-learning algorithm that outperforms all existing prediction methods in estimating the harmfulness of mitochondrial non-synonymous genome variations . We provide a detailed description of the underlying algorithm , of the selected and manually curated training and test sets of variants , as well as of its classification ability . 
Dengue virus ( DENV ) infection , the most common mosquito-transmitted viral infection , can cause a range of diseases from self-limiting dengue fever to life-threatening dengue hemorrhagic fever and shock syndrome . Thrombocytopenia is a major characteristic observed in both mild and severe dengue disease and is significantly correlated with the progression of dengue severity . Previous studies have shown that DENV nonstructural protein 1 ( NS1 ) , which can be secreted into patients’ blood , can stimulate immune cells via Toll-like receptor 4 ( TLR4 ) and can cause endothelial leakage . However , it is unclear whether DENV NS1 can directly induce platelet activation or cause thrombocytopenia during DENV infection . In this study , we first demonstrated that DENV but not Zika virus cell culture supernatant could induce P-selectin expression and phosphatidylserine ( PS ) exposure in human platelets , both of which were abolished when NS1 was depleted from the DENV supernatant . Similar
We performed a mathematical analysis of the dynamic control loops regulating the vasomotor tone of vascular smooth muscle , blood volume , and mean arterial pressure , which involve the arginine vasopressin ( AVP ) system , the atrial natriuretic peptide system ( ANP ) , and the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system ( RAAS ) . Our loop analysis of the AVP-ANP-RAAS system revealed the concurrent presence of two different regulatory mechanisms , which perform the same qualitative function: one affects blood pressure by regulating vasoconstriction , the other by regulating blood volume . Both the systems are candidate oscillators consisting of the negative-feedback loop of a monotone system: they admit a single equilibrium that can either be stable or give rise to oscillatory instability . Also a subsystem , which includes ANP and AVP stimulation of vascular smooth muscle cells , turns out to be a candidate oscillator composed of a monotone system with multiple negative feedback loops , an
Thromboembolic disease is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide . In the last several years there have been a number of studies attempting to identify mechanisms that stop thrombus growth . This paper identifies a novel mechanism related to formation of a fibrin cap . In particular , protein transport through a fibrin network , an important component of a thrombus , was studied by integrating experiments with model simulations . The network permeability and the protein diffusivity were shown to be important factors determining the transport of proteins through the fibrin network . Our previous in vivo studies in mice have shown that stabilized non-occluding thrombi are covered by a fibrin network ( ‘fibrin cap’ ) . Model simulations , calibrated using experiments in microfluidic devices and accounting for the permeable structure of the fibrin cap , demonstrated that thrombin generated inside the thrombus was washed downstream through the fibrin network , thus limiting ex
Invariant natural killer T ( iNKT ) cells are activated during infection , but how they limit microbial growth is unknown in most cases . We investigated how iNKT cells suppress intracellular Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) replication . When co-cultured with infected macrophages , iNKT cell activation , as measured by CD25 upregulation and IFNγ production , was primarily driven by IL-12 and IL-18 . In contrast , iNKT cell control of Mtb growth was CD1d-dependent , and did not require IL-12 , IL-18 , or IFNγ . This demonstrated that conventional activation markers did not correlate with iNKT cell effector function during Mtb infection . iNKT cell control of Mtb replication was also independent of TNF and cell-mediated cytotoxicity . By dissociating cytokine-driven activation and CD1d-restricted effector function , we uncovered a novel mediator of iNKT cell antimicrobial activity: GM-CSF . iNKT cells produced GM-CSF in vitro and in vivo in a CD1d-dependent manner during Mtb infection
Interactions between colonizing commensal microorganisms and their hosts play important roles in health and disease . The opportunistic fungal pathogen Candida albicans is a common component of human intestinal flora . To gain insight into C . albicans colonization , genes expressed by fungi grown within a host were studied . The EFH1 gene , encoding a putative transcription factor , was highly expressed during growth of C . albicans in the intestinal tract . Counterintuitively , an efh1 null mutant exhibited increased colonization of the murine intestinal tract , a model of commensal colonization , whereas an EFH1 overexpressing strain exhibited reduced colonization of the intestinal tract and of the oral cavity of athymic mice , the latter situation modeling human mucosal candidiasis . When inoculated into the bloodstream of mice , both efh1 null and EFH1 overexpressing strains caused lethal infections . In contrast , other mutants are attenuated in virulence following intravenous in
Immunization with irradiated sporozoites is currently the most effective vaccination strategy against liver stages of malaria parasites , yet the mechanisms underpinning the success of this approach are unknown . Here we show that the complete development of protective CD8+ T cell responses requires prolonged antigen presentation . Using TCR transgenic cells specific for the malaria circumsporozoite protein , a leading vaccine candidate , we found that sporozoite antigen persists for over 8 weeks after immunization—a remarkable finding since irradiated sporozoites are incapable of replication and do not differentiate beyond early liver stages . Persisting antigen was detected in lymphoid organs and depends on the presence of CD11c+ cells . Prolonged antigen presentation enhanced the magnitude of the CD8+ T cell response in a number of ways . Firstly , reducing the time primed CD8+ T cells were exposed to antigen in vivo severely reduced the final size of the developing memory populatio
Most treatments of leishmaniasis require hospitalization and present side effects or parasite resistance; innovations in drug formulation/reposition can overcome these barriers and must be pursued to increase therapeutic alternatives . Therefore , we tested polymyxin B ( polB ) potential to kill Leishmania amazonensis , adsorbed or not in PBCA nanoparticles ( PBCAnp ) , which could augment polB internalization in infected macrophages . PBCAnps were fabricated by anionic polymerization and analyzed by Dynamic Light Scattering ( size , ζ potential ) , Nanoparticle Tracking Analysis ( size/concentration ) , vertical diffusion cell ( release rate ) , drug incorporation ( indirect method , protein determination ) and in vitro cell viability . Nanoparticles coated with polB ( PBCAnp-polB ) presented an adequate size of 261 . 5 ± 25 . 9 nm , low PDI and ζ of 1 . 79 ± 0 . 17 mV ( stable for 45 days , at least ) . The 50% drug release from PBCAnp-polB was 6–7 times slower than the free polB , w
In Brazil , lethality from visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is high and few studies have addressed prognostic factors . This historical cohort study was designed to investigate the prognostic factors for death from VL in Belo Horizonte ( Brazil ) . The analysis was based on data of the Reportable Disease Information System-SINAN ( Brazilian Ministry of Health ) relating to the clinical manifestations of the disease . During the study period ( 2002–2009 ) , the SINAN changed platform from a Windows to a Net-version that differed with respect to some of the parameters collected . Multivariate logistic regression models were performed to identify variables associated with death from VL , and these were included in prognostic score . Model 1 ( period 2002–2009; 111 deaths from VL and 777 cured patients ) included the variables present in both SINAN versions , whereas Model 2 ( period 2007–2009; 49 deaths from VL and 327 cured patients ) included variables common to both SINAN versions plus th
Plants rely heavily on receptor-like kinases ( RLKs ) for perception and integration of external and internal stimuli . The Arabidopsis regulatory leucine-rich repeat RLK ( LRR-RLK ) BAK1 is involved in steroid hormone responses , innate immunity , and cell death control . Here , we describe the differential regulation of three different BAK1-dependent signaling pathways by a novel allele of BAK1 , bak1-5 . Innate immune signaling mediated by the BAK1-dependent RKs FLS2 and EFR is severely compromised in bak1-5 mutant plants . However , bak1-5 mutants are not impaired in BR signaling or cell death control . We also show that , in contrast to the RD kinase BRI1 , the non-RD kinases FLS2 and EFR have very low kinase activity , and we show that neither was able to trans-phosphorylate BAK1 in vitro . Furthermore , kinase activity for all partners is completely dispensable for the ligand-induced heteromerization of FLS2 or EFR with BAK1 in planta , revealing another pathway specific mechani
The antiproliferative response to anticancer treatment is the result of concurrent responses in all cell cycle phases , extending over several cell generations , whose complexity is not captured by current methods . In the proposed experimental/computational approach , the contemporary use of time-lapse live cell microscopy and flow cytometric data supported the computer rendering of the proliferative process through the cell cycle and subsequent generations during/after treatment . The effects of treatments were modelled with modules describing the functional activity of the main pathways causing arrest , repair and cell death in each phase . A framework modelling environment was created , enabling us to apply different types of modules in each phase and test models at the complexity level justified by the available data . We challenged the method with time-course measures taken in parallel with flow cytometry and time-lapse live cell microscopy in X-ray-treated human ovarian cancer c
Coenzyme Q ( CoQ ) is an essential electron carrier in the respiratory chain whose deficiency has been implicated in a wide variety of human mitochondrial disease manifestations . Its multi-step biosynthesis involves production of polyisoprenoid diphosphate in a reaction that requires the enzymes be encoded by PDSS1 and PDSS2 . Homozygous mutations in either of these genes , in humans , lead to severe neuromuscular disease , with nephrotic syndrome seen in PDSS2 deficiency . We now show that a presumed autoimmune kidney disease in mice with the missense Pdss2kd/kd genotype can be attributed to a mitochondrial CoQ biosynthetic defect . Levels of CoQ9 and CoQ10 in kidney homogenates from B6 . Pdss2kd/kd mutants were significantly lower than those in B6 control mice . Disease manifestations originate specifically in glomerular podocytes , as renal disease is seen in Podocin/cre , Pdss2loxP/loxP knockout mice but not in conditional knockouts targeted to renal tubular epithelium , monocytes
All forms of life are confronted with environmental and genetic perturbations , making phenotypic robustness an important characteristic of life . Although development has long been viewed as a key component of phenotypic robustness , the underlying mechanism is unclear . Here we report that the determinative developmental cell lineages of two protostomes and one deuterostome are structured such that the resulting cellular compositions of the organisms are only modestly affected by cell deaths . Several features of the cell lineages , including their shallowness , topology , early ontogenic appearances of rare cells , and non-clonality of most cell types , underlie the robustness . Simple simulations of cell lineage evolution demonstrate the possibility that the observed robustness arose as an adaptation in the face of random cell deaths in development . These results reveal general organizing principles of determinative developmental cell lineages and a conceptually new mechanism of p
Phenomics has the potential to facilitate significant advances in biology but requires the development of high-throughput technologies capable of generating and analysing high-dimensional data . There are significant challenges associated with building such technologies , not least those required for investigating dynamic processes such as embryonic development , during which high rates of temporal , spatial , and functional change are inherently difficult to capture . Here , we present EmbryoPhenomics , an accessible high-throughput platform for phenomics in aquatic embryos comprising an Open-source Video Microscope ( OpenVIM ) that produces high-resolution videos of multiple embryos under tightly controlled environmental conditions . These videos are then analysed by the Python package Embryo Computer Vision ( EmbryoCV ) , which extracts phenomic data for morphological , physiological , behavioural , and proxy traits during the process of embryonic development . We demonstrate the br
Malaria parasites ( Plasmodium spp . ) encounter markedly different ( nutritional ) environments during their complex life cycles in the mosquito and human hosts . Adaptation to these different host niches is associated with a dramatic rewiring of metabolism , from a highly glycolytic metabolism in the asexual blood stages to increased dependence on tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) metabolism in mosquito stages . Here we have used stable isotope labelling , targeted metabolomics and reverse genetics to map stage-specific changes in Plasmodium berghei carbon metabolism and determine the functional significance of these changes on parasite survival in the blood and mosquito stages . We show that glutamine serves as the predominant input into TCA metabolism in both asexual and sexual blood stages and is important for complete male gametogenesis . Glutamine catabolism , as well as key reactions in intermediary metabolism and CoA synthesis are also essential for ookinete to oocyst transition in t
From the timing of amoeba development to the maintenance of stem cell pluripotency , many biological signaling pathways exhibit the ability to differentiate between pulsatile and sustained signals in the regulation of downstream gene expression . While the networks underlying this signal decoding are diverse , many are built around a common motif , the incoherent feedforward loop ( IFFL ) , where an input simultaneously activates an output and an inhibitor of the output . With appropriate parameters , this motif can exhibit temporal adaptation , where the system is desensitized to a sustained input . This property serves as the foundation for distinguishing input signals with varying temporal profiles . Here , we use quantitative modeling to examine another property of IFFLs—the ability to process oscillatory signals . Our results indicate that the system’s ability to translate pulsatile dynamics is limited by two constraints . The kinetics of the IFFL components dictate the input rang
Scrub typhus is a leading cause of serious febrile illness in rural Southeast Asia . The causative agent , Orientia tsutsugamushi , is an obligate intracellular bacterium that is transmitted to humans by the bite of a Leptotrombidium mite . Research into the basic mechanisms of cell biology and pathogenicity of O . tsutsugamushi has lagged behind that of other important human pathogens . One reason for this is that O . tsutsugamushi is an obligate intracellular bacterium that can only be cultured in mammalian cells and that requires specific methodologies for propagation and analysis . Here , we have performed a body of work designed to improve methods for quantification , propagation , purification and long-term storage of this important but neglected human pathogen . These results will be useful to other researchers working on O . tsutsugamushi and also other obligate intracellular pathogens such as those in the Rickettsiales and Chlamydiales families . A clinical isolate of O . tsut
Morbidity due to schistosomiasis is currently controlled by treatment of schistosome infected people with the antihelminthic drug praziquantel ( PZQ ) . Children aged up to 5 years are currently excluded from schistosome control programmes largely due to the lack of PZQ safety data in this age group . This study investigated the safety and efficacy of PZQ treatment in such children . Zimbabwean children aged 1–5 years ( n = 104 ) were treated with PZQ tablets and side effects were assessed by questionnaire administered to their caregivers within 24 hours of taking PZQ . Treatment efficacy was determined 6 weeks after PZQ administration through schistosome egg counts in urine . The change in infection levels in the children 1–5 years old ( n = 100 ) was compared to that in 6–10 year old children ( n = 435 ) . Pre-treatment S . haematobium infection intensity in 1–5 year olds was 14 . 6 eggs/10 ml urine and prevalence was 21% . Of the 104 children , 3 . 8% reported side effects within 24
Oncogenic mutations in the small GTPase Ras contribute to ~30% of human cancers . However , Ras mutations alone are insufficient for tumorigenesis , therefore it is paramount to identify cooperating cancer-relevant signaling pathways . We devised an in vivo near genome-wide , functional screen in Drosophila and discovered multiple novel , evolutionarily-conserved pathways controlling Ras-driven epithelial tumorigenesis . Human gene orthologs of the fly hits were significantly downregulated in thousands of primary tumors , revealing novel prognostic markers for human epithelial tumors . Of the top 100 candidate tumor suppressor genes , 80 were validated in secondary Drosophila assays , identifying many known cancer genes and multiple novel candidate genes that cooperate with Ras-driven tumorigenesis . Low expression of the confirmed hits significantly correlated with the KRASG12 mutation status and poor prognosis in pancreatic cancer . Among the novel top 80 candidate cancer genes , we 
Meiotic drivers are selfish alleles that subvert gametogenesis to increase their transmission into progeny . Drivers impose a fitness cost , putting pressure on the genome to evolve suppressors . Here we investigate the wtf gene family from Schizosaccharomyces pombe , previously shown to contain meiotic drivers in wild isolates . We discovered that wtf13 found in lab stocks is a meiotic driver . wtf13 kills spores that do not inherit it by generating both a diffusible poison and a spore-specific antidote . Additionally , we demonstrate that wtf13 is suppressed by another wtf gene , wtf18-2 , that arose spontaneously in the lab and makes only an antidote . Wtf18-2 does not act indiscriminately to prevent spore destruction . Instead , it rescues only the spores that inherit wtf18-2 . In this way , wtf18-2 selfishly gains a transmission advantage of its own while dampening the drive of wtf13 . This establishes a novel paradigm for meiotic drive suppressors and provides insight into the me
Many genetic variants that are significantly correlated to gene expression changes across human individuals have been identified , but the ability of these variants to predict expression of unseen individuals has rarely been evaluated . Here , we devise an algorithm that , given training expression and genotype data for a set of individuals , predicts the expression of genes of unseen test individuals given only their genotype in the local genomic vicinity of the predicted gene . Notably , the resulting predictions are remarkably robust in that they agree well between the training and test sets , even when the training and test sets consist of individuals from distinct populations . Thus , although the overall number of genes that can be predicted is relatively small , as expected from our choice to ignore effects such as environmental factors and trans sequence variation , the robust nature of the predictions means that the identity and quantitative degree to which genes can be predic
Malarial infections are often genetically diverse , leading to competitive interactions between parasites . A quantitative understanding of the competition between strains is essential to understand a wide range of issues , including the evolution of virulence and drug resistance . In this study , we use dynamical-model based Bayesian inference to investigate the cause of competitive suppression of an avirulent clone of Plasmodium chabaudi ( AS ) by a virulent clone ( AJ ) in immuno-deficient and competent mice . We test whether competitive suppression is caused by clone-specific differences in one or more of the following processes: adaptive immune clearance of merozoites and parasitised red blood cells ( RBCs ) , background loss of merozoites and parasitised RBCs , RBC age preference , RBC infection rate , burst size , and within-RBC interference . These processes were parameterised in dynamical mathematical models and fitted to experimental data . We found that just one parameter , 
DNA replication errors are a major driver of evolution—from single nucleotide polymorphisms to large-scale copy number variations ( CNVs ) . Here we test a specific replication-based model to explain the generation of interstitial , inverted triplications . While no genetic information is lost , the novel inversion junctions and increased copy number of the included sequences create the potential for adaptive phenotypes . The model—Origin-Dependent Inverted-Repeat Amplification ( ODIRA ) —proposes that a replication error at pre-existing short , interrupted , inverted repeats in genomic sequences generates an extrachromosomal , inverted dimeric , autonomously replicating intermediate; subsequent genomic integration of the dimer yields this class of CNV without loss of distal chromosomal sequences . We used a combination of in vitro and in vivo approaches to test the feasibility of the proposed replication error and its downstream consequences on chromosome structure in the yeast Saccha
Translation can initiate at alternate , non-canonical start codons in response to stressful stimuli in mammalian cells . Recent studies suggest that viral infection and anti-viral responses alter sites of translation initiation , and in some cases , lead to production of novel immune epitopes . Here we systematically investigate the extent and impact of alternate translation initiation in cells infected with influenza virus . We perform evolutionary analyses that suggest selection against non-canonical initiation at CUG codons in influenza virus lineages that have adapted to mammalian hosts . We then use ribosome profiling with the initiation inhibitor lactimidomycin to experimentally delineate translation initiation sites in a human lung epithelial cell line infected with influenza virus . We identify several candidate sites of alternate initiation in influenza mRNAs , all of which occur at AUG codons that are downstream of canonical initiation codons . One of these candidate downstre
Enteric bacterial pathogens cause food borne disease , which constitutes an enormous economic and health burden . Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli ( EHEC ) causes a severe bloody diarrhea following transmission to humans through various means , including contaminated beef and vegetable products , water , or through contact with animals . EHEC also causes a potentially fatal kidney disease ( hemolytic uremic syndrome ) for which there is no effective treatment or prophylaxis . EHEC and other enteric pathogens ( e . g . , enteropathogenic E . coli ( EPEC ) , Salmonella , Shigella , Yersinia ) utilize a type III secretion system ( T3SS ) to inject virulence proteins ( effectors ) into host cells . While it is known that T3SS effectors subvert host cell function to promote diarrheal disease and bacterial transmission , in many cases , the mechanisms by which these effectors bind to host proteins and disrupt the normal function of intestinal epithelial cells have not been completely chara
Transcription factor ( TF ) binding to its DNA target site is a fundamental regulatory interaction . The most common model used to represent TF binding specificities is a position specific scoring matrix ( PSSM ) , which assumes independence between binding positions . However , in many cases , this simplifying assumption does not hold . Here , we present feature motif models ( FMMs ) , a novel probabilistic method for modeling TF–DNA interactions , based on log-linear models . Our approach uses sequence features to represent TF binding specificities , where each feature may span multiple positions . We develop the mathematical formulation of our model and devise an algorithm for learning its structural features from binding site data . We also developed a discriminative motif finder , which discovers de novo FMMs that are enriched in target sets of sequences compared to background sets . We evaluate our approach on synthetic data and on the widely used TF chromatin immunoprecipitation
Adrenergic α2C receptor ( ADRA2C ) is an inhibitory modulator of the sympathetic nervous system . Knockout mice for this gene show physiological and behavioural alterations that are associated with the fight-or-flight response . There is evidence of positive selection on the regulation of this gene during chicken domestication . Here , we find that the neuronal expression of ADRA2C is lower in human and chimpanzee than in other primates . On the basis of three-dimensional chromatin structure , we identified a cis-regulatory region whose DNA sequences have been significantly accelerated in human and chimpanzee . Active histone modification marks this region in rhesus macaque but not in human and chimpanzee; instead , repressive marks are enriched in various human brain samples . This region contains two neuron-restrictive silencer factor ( NRSF ) binding motifs , each of which harbours a polymorphism . Our genotyping and analysis of population genome data indicate that at both polymorph
With at least 60 independent origins spanning monocotyledons and dicotyledons , the C4 photosynthetic pathway represents one of the most remarkable examples of convergent evolution . The recurrent evolution of this highly complex trait involving alterations to leaf anatomy , cell biology and biochemistry allows an increase in productivity by ∼50% in tropical and subtropical areas . The extent to which separate lineages of C4 plants use the same genetic networks to maintain C4 photosynthesis is unknown . We developed a new informatics framework to enable deep evolutionary comparison of gene expression in species lacking reference genomes . We exploited this to compare gene expression in species representing two independent C4 lineages ( Cleome gynandra and Zea mays ) whose last common ancestor diverged ∼140 million years ago . We define a cohort of 3 , 335 genes that represent conserved components of leaf and photosynthetic development in these species . Furthermore , we show that genes
An unprecedented Ebola virus ( EBOV ) epidemic occurred in 2013–2016 in West Africa . Over this time the epidemic exponentially grew and moved to Europe and North America , with several imported cases and many Health Care Workers ( HCW ) infected . Better understanding of EBOV infection patterns in different body compartments is mandatory to develop new countermeasures , as well as to fully comprehend the pathways of human-to-human transmission . We have longitudinally explored the persistence of EBOV-specific negative sense genomic RNA ( neg-RNA ) and the presence of positive sense RNA ( pos-RNA ) , including both replication intermediate ( antigenomic-RNA ) and messenger RNA ( mRNA ) molecules , in the upper and lower respiratory tract , as compared to plasma , in a HCW infected with EBOV in Sierra Leone , who was hospitalized in the high isolation facility of the National Institute for Infectious Diseases “Lazzaro Spallanzani” ( INMI ) , Rome , Italy . We observed persistence of pos
Machupo virus ( MACV ) , a New World arenavirus , is the etiological agent of Bolivian hemorrhagic fever ( BHF ) . Junin virus ( JUNV ) , a close relative , causes Argentine hemorrhagic fever ( AHF ) . Previously , we reported that a recombinant , chimeric MACV ( rMACV/Cd#1-GPC ) expressing glycoprotein from the Candid#1 ( Cd#1 ) vaccine strain of JUNV is completely attenuated in a murine model and protects animals from lethal challenge with MACV . A rMACV with a single F438I substitution in the transmembrane domain ( TMD ) of GPC , which is equivalent to the F427I attenuating mutation in Cd#1 GPC , was attenuated in a murine model but genetically unstable . In addition , the TMD mutation alone was not sufficient to fully attenuate JUNV , indicating that other domains of the GPC may also contribute to the attenuation . To investigate the requirement of different domains of Cd#1 GPC for successful attenuation of MACV , we rescued several rMACVs expressing the ectodomain of GPC from Cd#1
The centromeric histone 3 variant ( CENH3 , aka CENP-A ) is essential for the segregation of sister chromatids during mitosis and meiosis . To better define CENH3 functional constraints , we complemented a null allele in Arabidopsis with a variety of mutant alleles , each inducing a single amino acid change in conserved residues of the histone fold domain . Many of these transgenic missense lines displayed wild-type growth and fertility on self-pollination , but exhibited frequent post-zygotic death and uniparental inheritance when crossed with wild-type plants . The failure of centromeres marked by these missense mutation in the histone fold domain of CENH3 reproduces the genome elimination syndromes described with chimeric CENH3 and CENH3 from diverged species . Additionally , evidence that a single point mutation is sufficient to generate a haploid inducer provide a simple one-step method for the identification of non-transgenic haploid inducers in existing mutagenized collections o
The role of alternative splicing in self-renewal , pluripotency and tissue lineage specification of human embryonic stem cells ( hESCs ) is largely unknown . To better define these regulatory cues , we modified the H9 hESC line to allow selection of pluripotent hESCs by neomycin resistance and cardiac progenitors by puromycin resistance . Exon-level microarray expression data from undifferentiated hESCs and cardiac and neural precursors were used to identify splice isoforms with cardiac-restricted or common cardiac/neural differentiation expression patterns . Splice events for these groups corresponded to the pathways of cytoskeletal remodeling , RNA splicing , muscle specification , and cell cycle checkpoint control as well as genes with serine/threonine kinase and helicase activity . Using a new program named AltAnalyze ( http://www . AltAnalyze . org ) , we identified novel changes in protein domain and microRNA binding site architecture that were predicted to affect protein functio
Trehalose biosynthesis is considered an attractive target for the development of antimicrobials against fungal , helminthic and bacterial pathogens including Mycobacterium tuberculosis . The most common biosynthetic route involves trehalose-6-phosphate ( T6P ) synthase OtsA and T6P phosphatase OtsB that generate trehalose from ADP/UDP-glucose and glucose-6-phosphate . In order to assess the drug target potential of T6P phosphatase , we generated a conditional mutant of M . tuberculosis allowing the regulated gene silencing of the T6P phosphatase gene otsB2 . We found that otsB2 is essential for growth of M . tuberculosis in vitro as well as for the acute infection phase in mice following aerosol infection . By contrast , otsB2 is not essential for the chronic infection phase in mice , highlighting the substantial remodelling of trehalose metabolism during infection by M . tuberculosis . Blocking OtsB2 resulted in the accumulation of its substrate T6P , which appears to be toxic , leadi
Chagas' disease , caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi ( T . cruzi ) , is a life-threatening illness affecting 11–18 million people . Currently available treatments are limited , with unacceptable efficacy and safety profiles . Recent studies have revealed an essential T . cruzi proline racemase enzyme ( TcPR ) as an attractive candidate for improved chemotherapeutic intervention . Conformational changes associated with substrate binding to TcPR are believed to expose critical residues that elicit a host mitogenic B-cell response , a process contributing to parasite persistence and immune system evasion . Characterization of the conformational states of TcPR requires access to long-time-scale motions that are currently inaccessible by standard molecular dynamics simulations . Here we describe advanced accelerated molecular dynamics that extend the effective simulation time and capture large-scale motions of functional relevance . Conservation and fragment mapping analyses
Inducible and reversible regulation of gene expression is a powerful approach for uncovering gene function . We have established a general method to efficiently produce reversible and inducible gene knockout and rescue in mice . In this system , which we named iKO , the target gene can be turned on and off at will by treating the mice with doxycycline . This method combines two genetically modified mouse lines: a ) a KO line with a tetracycline-dependent transactivator replacing the endogenous target gene , and b ) a line with a tetracycline-inducible cDNA of the target gene inserted into a tightly regulated ( TIGRE ) genomic locus , which provides for low basal expression and high inducibility . Such a locus occurs infrequently in the genome and we have developed a method to easily introduce genes into the TIGRE site of mouse embryonic stem ( ES ) cells by recombinase-mediated insertion . Both KO and TIGRE lines have been engineered for high-throughput , large-scale and cost-effective
Congenital infection of Trypanosoma cruzi allows transmission of this parasite through generations . Despite the problematic that this entails , little is known about the placenta environment genetic response produced against infection . We performed functional genomics by microarray analysis in C57Bl/6J mice comparing placentas from uninfected animals and from animals infected with two different T . cruzi strains: K98 , a clone of the non-lethal myotropic CA-I strain ( TcI ) , and VD ( TcVI ) , isolated from a human case of congenital infection . Analysis of networks by GeneMANIA of differentially expressed genes showed that “Secretory Granule” was a pathway down-regulated in both infected groups , whereas “Innate Immune Response” and “Response to Interferon-gamma” were pathways up-regulated in VD infection but not in K98 . Applying another approach , the GSEA algorithm that detects small changes in predetermined gene sets , we found that metabolic processes , transcription and macrom
Polyarthritis and rash caused by Sindbis virus ( SINV ) , was first recognised in northern Europe about 50 years ago and is known as Ockelbo disease in Sweden and Pogosta disease in Finland . This mosquito-borne virus occurs mainly in tropical and sub-tropical countries , and in northern Europe it is suggested to cause regularly reoccurring outbreaks . Here a seven-year cycle of SINV outbreaks has been referred to in scientific papers , although the hypothesis is based solely on reported human cases . In the search for a more objective outbreak signal , we evaluated mosquito abundance and SINV prevalence in vector mosquitoes from an endemic area in central Sweden . Vector mosquitoes collected in the River Dalälven floodplains during the years before , during , and after the hypothesised 2002 outbreak year were assayed for virus on cell culture . Obtained isolates were partially sequenced , and the nucleotide sequences analysed using Bayesian maximum clade credibility and median joining
Neural circuits exploit numerous strategies for encoding information . Although the functional significance of individual coding mechanisms has been investigated , ways in which multiple mechanisms interact and integrate are not well understood . The locust olfactory system , in which dense , transiently synchronized spike trains across ensembles of antenna lobe ( AL ) neurons are transformed into a sparse representation in the mushroom body ( MB; a region associated with memory ) , provides a well-studied preparation for investigating the interaction of multiple coding mechanisms . Recordings made in vivo from the insect MB demonstrated highly specific responses to odors in Kenyon cells ( KCs ) . Typically , only a few KCs from the recorded population of neurons responded reliably when a specific odor was presented . Different odors induced responses in different KCs . Here , we explored with a biologically plausible model the possibility that a form of plasticity may control and tune
Environmental exposures filtered through the genetic make-up of each individual alter the transcriptional repertoire in organs central to metabolic homeostasis , thereby affecting arterial lipid accumulation , inflammation , and the development of coronary artery disease ( CAD ) . The primary aim of the Stockholm Atherosclerosis Gene Expression ( STAGE ) study was to determine whether there are functionally associated genes ( rather than individual genes ) important for CAD development . To this end , two-way clustering was used on 278 transcriptional profiles of liver , skeletal muscle , and visceral fat ( n = 66/tissue ) and atherosclerotic and unaffected arterial wall ( n = 40/tissue ) isolated from CAD patients during coronary artery bypass surgery . The first step , across all mRNA signals ( n = 15 , 042/12 , 621 RefSeqs/genes ) in each tissue , resulted in a total of 60 tissue clusters ( n = 3958 genes ) . In the second step ( performed within tissue clusters ) , one atherosclero
Molecular genetic studies in the circadian model organism Synechococcus have revealed that the KaiC protein , the central component of the circadian clock in cyanobacteria , is involved in activation and repression of its own gene transcription . During 24 hours , KaiC hexamers run through different phospho-states during daytime . So far , it has remained unclear which phospho-state of KaiC promotes kaiBC expression and which opposes transcriptional activation . We systematically analyzed various combinations of positive and negative transcriptional feedback regulation by introducing a combined TTFL/PTO model consisting of our previous post-translational oscillator that considers all four phospho-states of KaiC and a transcriptional/translational feedback loop . Only a particular two-loop feedback mechanism out of 32 we have extensively tested is able to reproduce existing experimental observations , including the effects of knockout or overexpression of kai genes . Here , threonine an
The low pathogenicity and replicative potential of HIV-2 are still poorly understood . We investigated whether HIV-2 reservoirs might follow the peculiar distribution reported in models of attenuated HIV-1/SIV infections , i . e . limited infection of central-memory CD4 T lymphocytes ( TCM ) . Antiretroviral-naive HIV-2 infected individuals from the ANRS-CO5 ( 12 non-progressors , 2 progressors ) were prospectively included . Peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMCs ) were sorted into monocytes and resting CD4 T-cell subsets ( naive [TN] , central- [TCM] , transitional- [TTM] and effector-memory [TEM] ) . Reactivation of HIV-2 was tested in 30-day cultures of CD8-depleted PBMCs . HIV-2 DNA was quantified by real-time PCR . Cell surface markers , co-receptors and restriction factors were analyzed by flow-cytometry and multiplex transcriptomic study . HIV-2 DNA was undetectable in monocytes from all individuals and was quantifiable in TTM from 4 individuals ( median: 2 . 25 log10 copie
Visuospatial attention produces myriad effects on the activity and selectivity of cortical neurons . Spiking neuron models capable of reproducing a wide variety of these effects remain elusive . We present a model called the Attentional Routing Circuit ( ARC ) that provides a mechanistic description of selective attentional processing in cortex . The model is described mathematically and implemented at the level of individual spiking neurons , with the computations for performing selective attentional processing being mapped to specific neuron types and laminar circuitry . The model is used to simulate three studies of attention in macaque , and is shown to quantitatively match several observed forms of attentional modulation . Specifically , ARC demonstrates that with shifts of spatial attention , neurons may exhibit shifting and shrinking of receptive fields; increases in responses without changes in selectivity for non-spatial features ( i . e . response gain ) , and; that the effec
Atrial fibrillation ( AF ) is a morbid and heritable arrhythmia . Over 35 genes have been reported to underlie AF , most of which were described in small candidate gene association studies . Replication remains lacking for most , and therefore the contribution of coding variation to AF susceptibility remains poorly understood . We examined whole exome sequencing data in a large community-based sample of 1 , 734 individuals with and 9 , 423 without AF from the Framingham Heart Study , Cardiovascular Health Study , Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities Study , and NHLBI-GO Exome Sequencing Project and meta-analyzed the results . We also examined whether genetic variation was enriched in suspected AF genes ( N = 37 ) in AF cases versus controls . The mean age ranged from 59 to 73 years; 8 , 656 ( 78% ) were of European ancestry . None of the 99 , 404 common variants evaluated was significantly associated after adjusting for multiple testing . Among the most significantly associated variants
Alveolar echinococcosis ( AE ) caused by Echinococcus multilocularis infections is a dangerous old disease in the Northern Hemisphere . The aim of the paper was to collect and analyze data on human AE in Poland in the last two decades . The sources of data were both the cases officially registered and detected by an active field and laboratory surveillance . The cases were verified by clinical , epidemiological , and laboratory criteria . Altogether 121 human cases of AE were detected . Among these 83 ( 68 , 6% ) cases were classified as confirmed , 16 as probable and 22 as possible . During the two decades a continuous increase in detection rate was noticed . The cases were 6–82 years old at the time of diagnosis ( mean - 47 . 7 years ) . Sex ratio M/F was 0 . 86/1 . 0 . The AE was fatal in 23 ( 19% ) patients ( mean age at death - 54 . 1 years ) . Family agglomeration of AE was found in 4 foci , involving 9 patients . Seventy six of the cases were diagnosed in an advanced stage of di
Commensal microbes , whether they are beneficial or pathogenic , are sensitive to host processes that starve or swamp the prokaryote with large fluctuations in local zinc concentration . To understand how microorganisms coordinate a dynamic response to changes in zinc availability at the molecular level , we evaluated the molecular mechanism of the zinc-sensing zinc uptake regulator ( Zur ) protein at each of the known Zur-regulated genes in Escherichia coli . We solved the structure of zinc-loaded Zur bound to the PznuABC promoter and show that this metalloregulatory protein represses gene expression by a highly cooperative binding of two adjacent dimers to essentially encircle the core element of each of the Zur-regulated promoters . Cooperativity in these protein-DNA interactions requires a pair of asymmetric salt bridges between Arg52 and Asp49′ that connect otherwise independent dimers . Analysis of the protein-DNA interface led to the discovery of a new member of the Zur-regulon:
Rift Valley fever ( RVF ) is a vector-borne zoonotic disease that causes high morbidity and mortality in ruminants . In 2008–2009 , a RVF outbreak affected the whole Madagascar island , including the Anjozorobe district located in Madagascar highlands . An entomological survey showed the absence of Aedes among the potential RVF virus ( RVFV ) vector species identified in this area , and an overall low abundance of mosquitoes due to unfavorable climatic conditions during winter . No serological nor virological sign of infection was observed in wild terrestrial mammals of the area , suggesting an absence of wild RVF virus ( RVFV ) reservoir . However , a three years serological and virological follow-up in cattle showed a recurrent RVFV circulation . The objective of this study was to understand the key determinants of this unexpected recurrent transmission . To achieve this goal , a spatial deterministic discrete-time metapopulation model combined with cattle trade network was designed 
Within the last century , increases in human movement and globalization of trade have facilitated the establishment of several highly invasive mosquito species in new geographic locations with concurrent major environmental , economic and health consequences . The Asian tiger mosquito , Aedes albopictus , is an extremely invasive and aggressive daytime-biting mosquito that is a major public health threat throughout its expanding range . We used 13 nuclear microsatellite loci ( on 911 individuals ) and mitochondrial COI sequences to gain a better understanding of the historical and contemporary movements of Ae . albopictus in the Indo-Pacific region and to characterize its population structure . Approximate Bayesian computation ( ABC ) was employed to test competing historical routes of invasion of Ae . albopictus within the Southeast ( SE ) Asian/Australasian region . Our ABC results show that Ae . albopictus was most likely introduced to New Guinea via mainland Southeast Asia , before
Infection with Schistosoma mansoni negatively impact children’s physical health and may influence their general well-being . The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of S . mansoni infections on a panel of morbidity indicators with emphasis on quality of life ( PedsQL; measured in four different dimensions ) and physical fitness ( measured as VO2 max ) among 572 schoolchildren aged 7–8 years . Prevalence of S . mansoni infections was 58 . 7% , with an arithmetic mean ( 95% CI ) among positives of 207 . 3 ( 169 . 2–245 . 4 ) eggs per gram ( epg ) . Most infections were light ( 56 . 5% ) , while 16 . 4% had heavy infections . Girls had significantly higher arithmetic mean intensities ( 95% CI ) than boys ( 247 . 4 ( 189 . 2–305 . 6 ) vs . 153 . 2 ( 110 . 6–195 . 8 ) ; P = 0 . 004 ) . A total of 30 . 1% were anaemic with no sex difference . Stunting and wasting was found in less than 10% of the population . There was no association between S . mansoni prevalence or intensities 
Leptospirosis is a zoonosis found worldwide that is caused by a spirochete . The main reservoirs of Leptospira , which presents an asymptomatic infection , are wild rodents , including the brown rat ( Rattus norvegicus ) . Experimental studies of the mechanisms of its renal colonization in rats have previously used an intraperitoneal inoculation route . However , knowledge of rat-rat transmission requires the use of a natural route of inoculation , such as a mucosal or subcutaneous route . We investigated for the first time the effects of subcutaneous and mucosal inoculation routes compared to the reference intraperitoneal route during Leptospira infection in adult rats . Infection characteristics were studied using Leptospira renal isolation , serology , and molecular and histological analyses . Leptospira infection was asymptomatic using each inoculation route , and caused similar antibody production regardless of renal colonization . The observed renal colonization rates were 8 out 
Sepsis is a progressive disease manifesting excessive inflammatory responses , severe tissue injury , organ dysfunction , and , ultimately , mortality . Since currently , there are limited therapeutic options for this disease , further understanding the molecular pathogenesis of sepsis may help develop effective treatments . Here we identify a novel role for Annexin A2 ( AnxA2 ) , a multi-compartmental protein , in inhibiting pro-inflammatory response by regulating reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) and IL-17 signaling during sepsis . In cecal ligation and puncture ( CLP ) sepsis models , anxa2-/- mice manifested increased pro-inflammatory cytokines and neutrophil infiltration , but decreased bacterial clearance and animal survival . In addition , AnxA2 deficiency led to intensified ROS and IL-17A . Using site directed mutagenesis , we uncovered that cysteine 9 of AnxA2 was the most important aa ( site ) for regulation of ROS levels . Furthermore , ROS appears to be responsible for elevat
HIV-1 infection of macrophages plays a key role in viral pathogenesis and progression to AIDS . Polyinosine-polycytidylic acid ( poly ( I∶C ) ; a synthetic analog of dsRNA ) and bacterial lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) , the ligands for Toll-like receptors ( TLR ) TLR3 and TLR4 , respectively , are known to decrease HIV-1 infection in monocyte-derived macrophages ( MDMs ) , but the mechanism ( s ) are incompletely understood . We found that poly ( I∶C ) - and LPS-stimulation of MDMs abrogated infection by CCR5-using , macrophage-tropic HIV-1 , and by vesicular stomatitis virus glycoprotein-pseudotyped HIV-1 virions , while TLR2 , TLR7 or TLR9 agonists only partially reduced infection to varying extent . Suppression of infection , or lack thereof , did not correlate with differential effects on CD4 or CCR5 expression , type I interferon induction , or production of pro-inflammatory cytokines or β-chemokines . Integrated pro-viruses were readily detected in unstimulated , TLR7- and TLR9-stim
Most organisms use daily light/dark cycles as timing cues to control many essential physiological processes . In plants , growth rates of the embryonic stem ( hypocotyl ) are maximal at different times of day , depending on external photoperiod and the internal circadian clock . However , the interactions between light signaling , the circadian clock , and growth-promoting hormone pathways in growth control remain poorly understood . At the molecular level , such growth rhythms could be attributed to several different layers of time-specific control such as phasing of transcription , signaling , or protein abundance . To determine the transcriptional component associated with the rhythmic control of growth , we applied temporal analysis of the Arabidopsis thaliana seedling transcriptome under multiple growth conditions and mutant backgrounds using DNA microarrays . We show that a group of plant hormone-associated genes are coexpressed at the time of day when hypocotyl growth rate is ma
Technologies based on RNA interference may be used for insect control . Sustainable strategies are needed to control vectors of Chagas disease such as Rhodnius prolixus . The insect microbiota can be modified to deliver molecules to the gut . Here , Escherichia coli HT115 ( DE3 ) expressing dsRNA for the Rhodnius heme-binding protein ( RHBP ) and for catalase ( CAT ) were fed to nymphs and adult triatomine stages . RHBP is an egg protein and CAT is an antioxidant enzyme expressed in all tissues by all developmental stages . The RNA interference effect was systemic and temporal . Concentrations of E . coli HT115 ( DE3 ) above 3 . 35 × 107 CFU/mL produced a significant RHBP and CAT gene knockdown in nymphs and adults . RHBP expression in the fat body was reduced by 99% three days after feeding , returning to normal levels 10 days after feeding . CAT expression was reduced by 99% and 96% in the ovary and the posterior midgut , respectively , five days after ingestion . Mortality rates inc
Fever in pregnancy is dangerous for both mother and foetus . In the 1980's malaria was the leading cause of death in pregnant women in refugee camps on the Thai-Burmese border . Artemisinin combination therapy has significantly reduced the incidence of malaria in the population . The remaining causes of fever in pregnancy are not well documented . Pregnant women attending antenatal care , where weekly screening for malaria is routine , were invited to have a comprehensive clinical and laboratory screen if they had fever . Women were admitted to hospital , treated and followed up weekly until delivery . A convalescent serum was collected on day 21 . Delivery outcomes were recorded . Febrile episodes ( n = 438 ) occurred in 5 . 0% ( 409/8 , 117 ) of pregnant women attending antenatal clinics from 7-Jan-2004 to 17-May-2006 . The main cause was malaria in 55 . 5% ( 227/409 ) . A cohort of 203 ( 49 . 6% of 409 ) women had detailed fever investigations and follow up . Arthropod-borne ( malar
In humans , chromosome-number abnormalities have been associated with altered recombination and increased maternal age . Therefore , age-related effects on recombination are of major importance , especially in relation to the mechanisms involved in human trisomies . Here , we examine the relationship between maternal age and recombination rate in humans . We localized crossovers at high resolution by using over 600 , 000 markers genotyped in a panel of 69 French-Canadian pedigrees , revealing recombination events in 195 maternal meioses . Overall , we observed the general patterns of variation in fine-scale recombination rates previously reported in humans . However , we make the first observation of a significant decrease in recombination rates with advancing maternal age in humans , likely driven by chromosome-specific effects . The effect appears to be localized in the middle section of chromosomal arms and near subtelomeric regions . We postulate that , for some chromosomes , prote
Development of vaccines against opportunistic infections is difficult as patients most at risk of developing disease are deficient in aspects of the adaptive immune system . Here , we utilized an experimental immunization strategy to induce innate memory in macrophages in vivo . Unlike current trained immunity models , we present an innate memory-like phenotype in macrophages that is maintained for at least 70 days post-immunization and results in complete protection against secondary challenge in the absence of adaptive immune cells . RNA-seq analysis of in vivo IFN-γ primed macrophages revealed a rapid up-regulation of IFN-γ and STAT1 signaling pathways following secondary challenge . The enhanced cytokine recall responses appeared to be pathogen-specific , dependent on changes in histone methylation and acetylation , and correlated with increased STAT1 binding to promoter regions of genes associated with protective anti-fungal immunity . Thus , we demonstrate an alternative mechanis
Polycomb repressive complexes ( PRCs ) play crucial roles in transcriptional repression and developmental regulation in both plants and animals . In plants , depletion of different members of PRCs causes both overlapping and unique phenotypic defects . However , the underlying molecular mechanism determining the target specificity and functional diversity is not sufficiently characterized . Here , we quantitatively compared changes of tri-methylation at H3K27 in Arabidopsis mutants deprived of various key PRC components . We show that CURLY LEAF ( CLF ) , a major catalytic subunit of PRC2 , coordinates with different members of PRC1 in suppression of distinct plant developmental programs . We found that expression of flower development genes is repressed in seedlings preferentially via non-redundant role of CLF , which specifically associated with LIKE HETEROCHROMATIN PROTEIN1 ( LHP1 ) . In contrast , expression of embryo development genes is repressed by PRC1-catalytic core subunits A
The active sites of multisubunit RNA polymerases have a “trigger loop” ( TL ) that multitasks in substrate selection , catalysis , and translocation . To dissect the Saccharomyces cerevisiae RNA polymerase II TL at individual-residue resolution , we quantitatively phenotyped nearly all TL single variants en masse . Three mutant classes , revealed by phenotypes linked to transcription defects or various stresses , have distinct distributions among TL residues . We find that mutations disrupting an intra-TL hydrophobic pocket , proposed to provide a mechanism for substrate-triggered TL folding through destabilization of a catalytically inactive TL state , confer phenotypes consistent with pocket disruption and increased catalysis . Furthermore , allele-specific genetic interactions among TL and TL-proximal domain residues support the contribution of the funnel and bridge helices ( BH ) to TL dynamics . Our structural genetics approach incorporates structural and phenotypic data for high-
The majority of rabies virus ( RV ) infections are caused by bites or scratches from rabid carnivores or bats . Usually , RV utilizes the retrograde transport within the neuronal network to spread from the infection site to the central nervous system ( CNS ) where it replicates in neuronal somata and infects other neurons via trans-synaptic spread . We speculate that in addition to the neuronal transport of the virus , hematogenous spread from the site of infection directly to the brain after accidental spill over into the vascular system might represent an alternative way for RV to invade the CNS . So far , it is unknown whether hematogenous spread has any relevance in RV pathogenesis . To determine whether certain RV variants might have the capacity to invade the CNS from the periphery via hematogenous spread , we infected mice either intramuscularly ( i . m . ) or intravenously ( i . v . ) with the dog-associated RV DOG4 or the silver-haired bat-associated RV SB . In addition to mon
The H1N1 subtype of influenza A virus has caused substantial morbidity and mortality in humans , first documented in the global pandemic of 1918 and continuing to the present day . Despite this disease burden , the evolutionary history of the A/H1N1 virus is not well understood , particularly whether there is a virological basis for several notable epidemics of unusual severity in the 1940s and 1950s . Using a data set of 71 representative complete genome sequences sampled between 1918 and 2006 , we show that segmental reassortment has played an important role in the genomic evolution of A/H1N1 since 1918 . Specifically , we demonstrate that an A/H1N1 isolate from the 1947 epidemic acquired novel PB2 and HA genes through intra-subtype reassortment , which may explain the abrupt antigenic evolution of this virus . Similarly , the 1951 influenza epidemic may also have been associated with reassortant A/H1N1 viruses . Intra-subtype reassortment therefore appears to be a more important pro
Nicotine exerts its reinforcing action by stimulating nicotinic acetylcholine receptors ( nAChRs ) and boosting dopamine ( DA ) output from the ventral tegmental area ( VTA ) . Recent data have led to a debate about the principal pathway of nicotine action: direct stimulation of the DAergic cells through nAChR activation , or disinhibition mediated through desensitization of nAChRs on GABAergic interneurons . We use a computational model of the VTA circuitry and nAChR function to shed light on this issue . Our model illustrates that the α4β2-containing nAChRs either on DA or GABA cells can mediate the acute effects of nicotine . We account for in vitro as well as in vivo data , and predict the conditions necessary for either direct stimulation or disinhibition to be at the origin of DA activity increases . We propose key experiments to disentangle the contribution of both mechanisms . We show that the rate of endogenous acetylcholine input crucially determines the evoked DA response fo
Anthroponotic cutaneous leishmaniasis ( CL ) due to Leishmania ( L . ) tropica infection is a chronic , frequently disfiguring skin disease with limited therapeutic options . In endemic countries healing of ulcerative lesions is often delayed by bacterial and/or fungal infections . Here , we studied a novel therapeutic concept to prevent superinfections , accelerate wound closure , and improve the cosmetic outcome of ACL . From 2004 to 2008 we performed a two-armed , randomized , double-blinded , phase IIa trial in Kabul , Afghanistan , with patients suffering from L . tropica CL . The skin lesions were treated with bipolar high-frequency electrocauterization ( EC ) followed by daily moist-wound-treatment ( MWT ) with polyacrylate hydrogel with ( group I ) or without ( group II ) pharmaceutical sodium chlorite ( DAC N-055 ) . Patients below age 5 , with facial lesions , pregnancy , or serious comorbidities were excluded . The primary , photodocumented outcome was the time needed for co
The small GTPase RAS is among the most prevalent oncogenes . The evolutionarily conserved RAF-MEK-MAPK module that lies downstream of RAS is one of the main conduits through which RAS transmits proliferative signals in normal and cancer cells . Genetic and biochemical studies conducted over the last two decades uncovered a small set of factors regulating RAS/MAPK signaling . Interestingly , most of these were found to control RAF activation , thus suggesting a central regulatory role for this event . Whether additional factors are required at this level or further downstream remains an open question . To obtain a comprehensive view of the elements functionally linked to the RAS/MAPK cascade , we used a quantitative assay in Drosophila S2 cells to conduct a genome-wide RNAi screen for factors impacting RAS-mediated MAPK activation . The screen led to the identification of 101 validated hits , including most of the previously known factors associated to this pathway . Epistasis experimen
To gain a more detailed picture of cryptococcosis in Thailand , a retrospective study of 498 C . neoformans and C . gattii isolates has been conducted . Among these , 386 , 83 and 29 strains were from clinical , environmental and veterinary sources , respectively . A total of 485 C . neoformans and 13 C . gattii strains were studied . The majority of the strains ( 68 . 9% ) were isolated from males ( mean age of 37 . 97 years ) , 88 . 5% of C . neoformans and only 37 . 5% of C . gattii strains were from HIV patients . URA5-RFLP and/or M13 PCR-fingerprinting analysis revealed that the majority of the isolates were C . neoformans molecular type VNI regardless of their sources ( 94 . 8%; 94 . 6% of the clinical , 98 . 8% of the environmental and 86 . 2% of the veterinary isolates ) . In addition , the molecular types VNII ( 2 . 4%; 66 . 7% of the clinical and 33 . 3% of the veterinary isolates ) , VNIV ( 0 . 2%; 100% environmental isolate ) , VGI ( 0 . 2%; 100% clinical isolate ) and VGII
Differences in transcriptional regulatory networks underlie much of the phenotypic variation observed across organisms . Changes to cis-regulatory elements are widely believed to be the predominant means by which regulatory networks evolve , yet examples of regulatory network divergence due to transcription factor ( TF ) variation have also been observed . To systematically ascertain the extent to which TFs contribute to regulatory divergence , we analyzed the evolution of the largest class of metazoan TFs , Cys2-His2 zinc finger ( C2H2-ZF ) TFs , across 12 Drosophila species spanning ~45 million years of evolution . Remarkably , we uncovered that a significant fraction of all C2H2-ZF 1-to-1 orthologs in flies exhibit variations that can affect their DNA-binding specificities . In addition to loss and recruitment of C2H2-ZF domains , we found diverging DNA-contacting residues in ~44% of domains shared between D . melanogaster and the other fly species . These diverging DNA-contacting r
Serotype-specific PCR assays targeting Salmonella enterica serotypes Typhi and Paratyphi A , the causal agents of typhoid and paratyphoid fevers , are required to accelerate formal diagnosis and to overcome the lack of typing sera and , in some situations , the need for culture . However , the sensitivity and specificity of such assays must be demonstrated on large collections of strains representative of the targeted serotypes and all other bacterial populations producing similar clinical symptoms . Using a new family of repeated DNA sequences , CRISPR ( clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats ) , as a serotype-specific target , we developed a conventional multiplex PCR assay for the detection and differentiation of serotypes Typhi and Paratyphi A from cultured isolates . We also developed EvaGreen-based real-time singleplex PCR assays with the same two sets of primers . We achieved 100% sensitivity and specificity for each protocol after validation of the assays on 
The protective immune response to intracellular parasites involves in most cases the differentiation of IFNγ-secreting CD4+ T helper ( Th ) 1 cells . Notch receptors regulate cell differentiation during development but their implication in the polarization of peripheral CD4+ T helper 1 cells is not well understood . Of the four Notch receptors , only Notch1 ( N1 ) and Notch2 ( N2 ) are expressed on activated CD4+ T cells . To investigate the role of Notch in Th1 cell differentiation following parasite infection , mice with T cell-specific gene ablation of N1 , N2 or both ( N1N2ΔCD4Cre ) were infected with the protozoan parasite Leishmania major . N1N2ΔCD4Cre mice , on the C57BL/6 L . major-resistant genetic background , developed unhealing lesions and uncontrolled parasitemia . Susceptibility correlated with impaired secretion of IFNγ by draining lymph node CD4+ T cells and increased secretion of the IL-5 and IL-13 Th2 cytokines . Mice with single inactivation of N1 or N2 in their T ce
Individuals living in sub-Saharan Africa represent 10% of the world's population but almost 2/3 of all HIV-1/AIDS cases . The disproportionate HIV-1 infection rates in this region may be linked to helminthic parasite infections that affect many individuals in the developing world . However , the hypothesis that parasite infection increases an individual's susceptibility to HIV-1 has never been prospectively tested in a relevant in vivo model . We measured whether pre-existing infection of rhesus monkeys with a parasitic worm would facilitate systemic infection after mucosal AIDS virus exposure . Two groups of animals , one consisting of normal monkeys and the other harboring Schistosoma mansoni , were challenged intrarectally with decreasing doses of R5-tropic clade C simian-human immunodeficiency virus ( SHIV-C ) . Systemic infection occurred in parasitized monkeys at viral doses that remained sub-infectious in normal hosts . In fact , the 50% animal infectious ( AID50 ) SHIV-C dose w
Acetylcholine ( ACh ) is a regulator of neural excitability and one of the neurochemical substrates of sleep . Amongst the cellular effects induced by cholinergic modulation are a reduction in spike-frequency adaptation ( SFA ) and a shift in the phase response curve ( PRC ) . We demonstrate in a biophysical model how changes in neural excitability and network structure interact to create three distinct functional regimes: localized asynchronous , traveling asynchronous , and traveling synchronous . Our results qualitatively match those observed experimentally . Cortical activity during slow wave sleep ( SWS ) differs from that during REM sleep or waking states . During SWS there are traveling patterns of activity in the cortex; in other states stationary patterns occur . Our model is a network composed of Hodgkin-Huxley type neurons with a M-current regulated by ACh . Regulation of ACh level can account for dynamical changes between functional regimes . Reduction of the magnitude of t
Esophageal adenocarcinoma ( EAC ) develops in an inflammatory microenvironment with reduced microbial diversity , but mechanisms for these influences remain poorly characterized . We hypothesized that mutations targeting the Toll-like receptor ( TLR ) pathway could disrupt innate immune signaling and promote a microenvironment that favors tumorigenesis . Through interrogating whole genome sequencing data from 171 EAC patients , we showed that non-synonymous mutations collectively affect the TLR pathway in 25/171 ( 14 . 6% , PathScan p = 8 . 7x10-5 ) tumors . TLR mutant cases were associated with more proximal tumors and metastatic disease , indicating possible clinical significance of these mutations . Only rare mutations were identified in adjacent Barrett’s esophagus samples . We validated our findings in an external EAC dataset with non-synonymous TLR pathway mutations in 33/149 ( 22 . 1% , PathScan p = 0 . 05 ) tumors , and in other solid tumor types exposed to microbiomes in the C
The sense of taste is of critical importance to animal survival . Although studies of taste signal transduction mechanisms have provided detailed information regarding taste receptor calcium signaling molecules ( TRCSMs , required for sweet/bitter/umami taste signal transduction ) , the ontogeny of taste cells is still largely unknown . We used a novel approach to investigate the molecular regulation of taste system development in mice by combining in silico and in vivo analyses . After discovering that TRCSMs colocalized within developing circumvallate papillae ( CVP ) , we used computational analysis of the upstream regulatory regions of TRCSMs to investigate the possibility of a common regulatory network for TRCSM transcription . Based on this analysis , we identified Hes1 as a likely common regulatory factor , and examined its function in vivo . Expression profile analyses revealed that decreased expression of nuclear HES1 correlated with expression of type II taste cell markers . 
Rice is an important monocotyledonous crop worldwide; it differs from the dicotyledonous plant Arabidopsis in many aspects . In Arabidopsis , ethylene and auxin act synergistically to regulate root growth and development . However , their interaction in rice is still unclear . Here , we report that the transcriptional activation of OsEIL1 on the expression of YUC8/REIN7 and indole-3-pyruvic acid ( IPA ) -dependent auxin biosynthesis is required for ethylene-inhibited root elongation . Using an inhibitor of YUC activity , which regulates auxin biosynthesis via the conversion of IPA to indole-3-acetic acid ( IAA ) , we showed that ethylene-inhibited primary root elongation is dependent on YUC-based auxin biosynthesis . By screening phenotypes of seedling primary root from mutagenesis libraries following ethylene treatment , we identified a rice ethylene-insensitive mutant , rein7-1 , in which YUC8/REIN7 is truncated at its C-terminus . Mutation in YUC8/REIN7 reduced auxin biosynthesis in
Incidences of nontuberculous mycobacteria ( NTM ) causing pulmonary and extrapulmonary diseases are reportedly increasing globally and the current epidemiologic situation in Saudi Arabia remains unclear . To study such trend , we carried out a nationwide systematic epidemiological study focusing on NTM diseases for the first time in the country . A nationwide collection of NTM isolates with clinical and demographical data was conducted for a period of 24 months . Primary species identification was carried out by line probe assays followed by sequencing of 16S rRNA , 16S-23S ITS region , rpoB and hsp65 genes . The laboratory findings were comprehensively analysed against demographical and clinical data . A total of 527 isolates were enrolled with a higher proportion of Saudi citizens ( 76 . 5% ) , elderly ( >60 years ) patients ( 34 . 2% ) , and male gender ( 65 . 3% ) respectively . Overall , 75 . 1% isolates were pulmonary origin with a proven clinical significance of 44 . 7% . In tot
Upon starvation for glucose or any other macronutrient , yeast cells exit from the mitotic cell cycle and acquire a set of characteristics that are specific to quiescent cells to ensure longevity . Little is known about the molecular determinants that orchestrate quiescence entry and lifespan extension . Using starvation-specific gene reporters , we screened a subset of the yeast deletion library representing the genes encoding ‘signaling’ proteins . Apart from the previously characterised Rim15 , Mck1 and Yak1 kinases , the SNF1/AMPK complex , the cell wall integrity pathway and a number of cell cycle regulators were shown to be necessary for proper quiescence establishment and for extension of chronological lifespan ( CLS ) , suggesting that entry into quiescence requires the integration of starvation signals transmitted via multiple signaling pathways . The CLS of these signaling mutants , and those of the single , double and triple mutants of RIM15 , YAK1 and MCK1 correlates well w
Rapid antigenic evolution enables the persistence of seasonal influenza A and B viruses in human populations despite widespread herd immunity . Understanding viral mechanisms that enable antigenic evolution is critical for designing durable vaccines and therapeutics . Here , we utilize the primerID method of error-correcting viral population sequencing to reveal an unexpected role for hemagglutinin ( HA ) glycosylation in compensating for fitness defects resulting from escape from anti-HA neutralizing antibodies . Antibody-free propagation following antigenic escape rapidly selected viruses with mutations that modulated receptor binding avidity through the addition of N-linked glycans to the HA globular domain . These findings expand our understanding of the viral mechanisms that maintain fitness during antigenic evolution to include glycan addition , and highlight the immense power of high-definition virus population sequencing to reveal novel viral adaptive mechanisms . 
Reverse rate dependence is a problematic property of antiarrhythmic drugs that prolong the cardiac action potential ( AP ) . The prolongation caused by reverse rate dependent agents is greater at slow heart rates , resulting in both reduced arrhythmia suppression at fast rates and increased arrhythmia risk at slow rates . The opposite property , forward rate dependence , would theoretically overcome these parallel problems , yet forward rate dependent ( FRD ) antiarrhythmics remain elusive . Moreover , there is evidence that reverse rate dependence is an intrinsic property of perturbations to the AP . We have addressed the possibility of forward rate dependence by performing a comprehensive analysis of 13 ventricular myocyte models . By simulating populations of myocytes with varying properties and analyzing population results statistically , we simultaneously predicted the rate-dependent effects of changes in multiple model parameters . An average of 40 parameters were tested in each 
Phenome-Wide Association Studies ( PheWAS ) investigate whether genetic polymorphisms associated with a phenotype are also associated with other diagnoses . In this study , we have developed new methods to perform a PheWAS based on ICD-10 codes and biological test results , and to use a quantitative trait as the selection criterion . We tested our approach on thiopurine S-methyltransferase ( TPMT ) activity in patients treated by thiopurine drugs . We developed 2 aggregation methods for the ICD-10 codes: an ICD-10 hierarchy and a mapping to existing ICD-9-CM based PheWAS codes . Eleven biological test results were also analyzed using discretization algorithms . We applied these methods in patients having a TPMT activity assessment from the clinical data warehouse of a French academic hospital between January 2000 and July 2013 . Data after initiation of thiopurine treatment were analyzed and patient groups were compared according to their TPMT activity level . A total of 442 patient re
Spinal cord injury ( SCI ) is a devastating condition that causes substantial morbidity and mortality and for which no treatments are available . Stem cells offer some promise in the restoration of neurological function . We used systematic review , meta-analysis , and meta-regression to study the impact of stem cell biology and experimental design on motor and sensory outcomes following stem cell treatments in animal models of SCI . One hundred and fifty-six publications using 45 different stem cell preparations met our prespecified inclusion criteria . Only one publication used autologous stem cells . Overall , allogeneic stem cell treatment appears to improve both motor ( effect size , 27 . 2%; 95% Confidence Interval [CI] , 25 . 0%–29 . 4%; 312 comparisons in 5 , 628 animals ) and sensory ( effect size , 26 . 3%; 95% CI , 7 . 9%–44 . 7%; 23 comparisons in 473 animals ) outcome . For sensory outcome , most heterogeneity between experiments was accounted for by facets of stem cell bi
Soil-transmitted helminth ( STH ) infections ( i . e . , Ascaris lumbricoides , hookworm , and Trichuris trichiura ) affect more than a billion people . Preventive chemotherapy ( i . e . , repeated administration of anthelmintic drugs to at-risk populations ) , is the mainstay of control . This strategy , however , does not prevent reinfection . We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to assess patterns and dynamics of STH reinfection after drug treatment . We systematically searched PubMed , ISI Web of Science , EMBASE , Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews , China National Knowledge Infrastructure , WanFang Database , Chinese Scientific Journal Database , and Google Scholar . Information on study year , country , sample size , age of participants , diagnostic method , drug administration strategy , prevalence and intensity of infection pre- and posttreatment , cure and egg reduction rate , evaluation period posttreatment , and adherence was extracted . Pooled risk ratio
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) is associated with metabolic syndromes spanning a wide spectrum of diseases , from simple steatosis to the more complex nonalcoholic steatohepatitis . To identify the deregulation that occurs in metabolic processes at the molecular level that give rise to these various NAFLD phenotypes , algorithms such as pathway enrichment analysis ( PEA ) can be used . These analyses require the use of predefined pathway maps , which are composed of reactions describing metabolic processes/subsystems . Unfortunately , the annotation of the metabolic subsystems can differ depending on the pathway database used , making these approaches subject to biases associated with different pathway annotations , and these methods cannot capture the balancing of cofactors and byproducts through the complex nature and interactions of genome-scale metabolic networks ( GEMs ) . Here , we introduce a framework entitled Minimum Network Enrichment Analysis ( MiNEA ) that is ap
The olfactory system faces the difficult task of identifying an enormous variety of odors independent of their intensity . Primacy coding , where the odor identity is encoded by the receptor types that respond earliest , might provide a compact and informative representation that can be interpreted efficiently by the brain . In this paper , we analyze the information transmitted by a simple model of primacy coding using numerical simulations and statistical descriptions . We show that the encoded information depends strongly on the number of receptor types included in the primacy representation , but only weakly on the size of the receptor repertoire . The representation is independent of the odor intensity and the transmitted information is useful to perform typical olfactory tasks with close to experimentally measured performance . Interestingly , we find situations in which a smaller receptor repertoire is advantageous for discriminating odors . The model also suggests that overly s
The broadly neutralizing HIV monoclonal antibodies ( bnMAbs ) PG9 , PG16 , PGT151 , and PGT152 have been shown earlier to occasionally display an unusual virus neutralization profile with a non-sigmoidal slope and a plateau at <100% neutralization . In the current study , we were interested in determining the extent of non-sigmoidal slopes and plateaus at <100% for HIV bnMAbs more generally . Using both a 278 panel of pseudoviruses in a CD4 T-cell ( U87 . CCR5 . CXCR4 ) assay and a panel of 117 viruses in the TZM-bl assay , we found that bnMAbs targeting many neutralizing epitopes of the spike had neutralization profiles for at least one virus that plateaued at <90% . Across both panels the bnMAbs targeting the V2 apex of Env and gp41 were most likely to show neutralization curves that plateaued <100% . Conversely , bnMAbs targeting the high-mannose patch epitopes were less likely to show such behavior . Two CD4 binding site ( CD4bs ) Abs also showed this behavior relatively infrequent
Cancer cells share several metabolic traits , including aerobic production of lactate from glucose ( Warburg effect ) , extensive glutamine utilization and impaired mitochondrial electron flow . It is still unclear how these metabolic rearrangements , which may involve different molecular events in different cells , contribute to a selective advantage for cancer cell proliferation . To ascertain which metabolic pathways are used to convert glucose and glutamine to balanced energy and biomass production , we performed systematic constraint-based simulations of a model of human central metabolism . Sampling of the feasible flux space allowed us to obtain a large number of randomly mutated cells simulated at different glutamine and glucose uptake rates . We observed that , in the limited subset of proliferating cells , most displayed fermentation of glucose to lactate in the presence of oxygen . At high utilization rates of glutamine , oxidative utilization of glucose was decreased , whil
The physiological environment which hosts the conformational conversion of the cellular prion protein ( PrPC ) to disease-associated isoforms has remained enigmatic . A quantitative investigation of the PrPC interactome was conducted in a cell culture model permissive to prion replication . To facilitate recognition of relevant interactors , the study was extended to Doppel ( Prnd ) and Shadoo ( Sprn ) , two mammalian PrPC paralogs . Interestingly , this work not only established a similar physiological environment for the three prion protein family members in neuroblastoma cells , but also suggested direct interactions amongst them . Furthermore , multiple interactions between PrPC and the neural cell adhesion molecule , the laminin receptor precursor , Na/K ATPases and protein disulfide isomerases ( PDI ) were confirmed , thereby reconciling previously separate findings . Subsequent validation experiments established that interactions of PrPC with PDIs may extend beyond the endoplasm
Respiratory virus infections , such as influenza , typically induce a robust type I ( pro-inflammatory cytokine ) immune response , however , the production of type 2 cytokines has been observed . Type 2 cytokine production during respiratory virus infection is linked to asthma exacerbation; however , type 2 cytokines may also be tissue protective . Interleukin ( IL ) -5 is a prototypical type 2 cytokine that is essential for eosinophil maturation and egress out of the bone marrow . However , little is known about the cellular source and underlying cellular and molecular basis for the regulation of IL-5 production during respiratory virus infection . Using a mouse model of influenza virus infection , we found a robust transient release of IL-5 into infected airways along with a significant and progressive accumulation of eosinophils into the lungs , particularly during the recovery phase of infection , i . e . following virus clearance . The cellular source of the IL-5 was group 2 inna
Invasive non-typhoidal Salmonella ( iNTS ) infections are now a well-described cause of morbidity and mortality in children and HIV-infected adults in sub-Saharan Africa . In contrast , the epidemiology and clinical manifestations of iNTS disease in Asia are not well documented . We retrospectively identified >100 cases of iNTS infections in an infectious disease hospital in Southern Vietnam between 2008 and 2013 . Clinical records were accessed to evaluate demographic and clinical factors associated with iNTS infection and to identify risk factors associated with death . Multi-locus sequence typing and antimicrobial susceptibility testing was performed on all organisms . Of 102 iNTS patients , 71% were HIV-infected , >90% were adults , 71% were male and 33% reported intravenous drug use . Twenty-six/92 ( 28% ) patients with a known outcome died; HIV infection was significantly associated with death ( p = 0 . 039 ) . S . Enteritidis ( Sequence Types ( ST ) 11 ) ( 48% , 43/89 ) and S . 
Phages play critical roles in the survival and pathogenicity of their hosts , via lysogenic conversion factors , and in nutrient redistribution , via cell lysis . Analyses of phage- and viral-encoded genes in environmental samples provide insights into the physiological impact of viruses on microbial communities and human health . However , phage ORFs are extremely diverse of which over 70% of them are dissimilar to any genes with annotated functions in GenBank . Better identification of viruses would also aid in better detection and diagnosis of disease , in vaccine development , and generally in better understanding the physiological potential of any environment . In contrast to enzymes , viral structural protein function can be much more challenging to detect from sequence data because of low sequence conservation , few known conserved catalytic sites or sequence domains , and relatively limited experimental data . We have designed a method of predicting phage structural protein seq
Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) is one of the few oncogenic human viruses known to date . Its large genome encodes more than 85 proteins and includes both unique viral proteins as well as proteins conserved amongst herpesviruses . KSHV ORF20 is a member of the herpesviral core UL24 family , but the function of ORF20 and its role in the viral life cycle is not well understood . ORF20 encodes three largely uncharacterized isoforms , which we found were localized predominantly in the nuclei and nucleoli . Quantitative affinity purification coupled to mass spectrometry ( q-AP-MS ) identified numerous specific interacting partners of ORF20 , including ribosomal proteins and the interferon-stimulated gene product ( ISG ) oligoadenylate synthetase-like protein ( OASL ) . Both endogenous and transiently transfected OASL co-immunoprecipitated with ORF20 , and this interaction was conserved among all ORF20 isoforms and multiple ORF20 homologs of the UL24 family in other herpesvi
Convulsions with fever in children are a common neurologic emergency in the tropics , and determining the contribution of endemic viral infections can be challenging . In particular , there is a dearth of data on the prevalence and clinical differentiation of Lassa virus disease ( LVD ) in febrile children in endemic areas of Nigeria , which has multiple lineages of the virus . The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence and presentation of LVD in febrile children with and without convulsions . This was a prospective study of consecutive febrile children aged ≥1 month– 15 years admitted to the Children’s Emergency Room of Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital over a period of 1 year . Febrile children with convulsions ( Cases ) were compared with those without convulsions ( Controls ) . LVD was defined by the presence of a positive Lassa virus RT-PCR test . Rates were compared between groups using χ2 or Fisher’s exact tests and p <0 . 05 taken as significant . 373 ( 40 . 9% ) of
Drought causes substantial reductions in crop yields worldwide . Therefore , we set out to identify new chemical and genetic factors that regulate drought resistance in Arabidopsis thaliana . Karrikins ( KARs ) are a class of butenolide compounds found in smoke that promote seed germination , and have been reported to improve seedling vigor under stressful growth conditions . Here , we discovered that mutations in KARRIKIN INSENSITIVE2 ( KAI2 ) , encoding the proposed karrikin receptor , result in hypersensitivity to water deprivation . We performed transcriptomic , physiological and biochemical analyses of kai2 plants to understand the basis for KAI2-regulated drought resistance . We found that kai2 mutants have increased rates of water loss and drought-induced cell membrane damage , enlarged stomatal apertures , and higher cuticular permeability . In addition , kai2 plants have reduced anthocyanin biosynthesis during drought , and are hyposensitive to abscisic acid ( ABA ) in stomata
To further investigate the importance of insulin signaling in the growth , development , sexual maturation and egg production of adult schistosomes , we have focused attention on the insulin receptors ( SjIRs ) of Schistosoma japonicum , which we have previously cloned and partially characterised . We now show , by Biolayer Interferometry , that human insulin can bind the L1 subdomain ( insulin binding domain ) of recombinant ( r ) SjIR1 and rSjIR2 ( designated SjLD1 and SjLD2 ) produced using the Drosophila S2 protein expression system . We have then used RNA interference ( RNAi ) to knock down the expression of the SjIRs in adult S . japonicum in vitro and show that , in addition to their reduced transcription , the transcript levels of other important downstream genes within the insulin pathway , associated with glucose metabolism and schistosome fecundity , were also impacted substantially . Further , a significant decrease in glucose uptake was observed in the SjIR-knockdown worms
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is a leading cause of disability in South Pacific regions , where >96% of the 1 . 7 million population are at risk of LF infection . As part of current global campaign , mass drug administration ( MDA ) has effectively reduced lymphatic filiariasis prevalence , but mosquito vector biology can complicate the MDA strategy . In some regions , there is evidence that the goal of LF elimination cannot be attained via MDA alone . Obligate vector mosquitoes provide additional targets for breaking the LF transmission cycle , but existing methods are ineffective for controlling the primary vector throughout much of the South Pacific , Aedes polynesiensis . Here we demonstrate that interspecific hybridization and introgression results in an A . polynesiensis strain ( ‘CP’ strain ) that is stably infected with the endosymbiotic Wolbachia bacteria from Aedes riversi . The CP strain is bi-directionally incompatible with naturally infected mosquitoes , resulting in female 
Human African trypanosomiasis is a severely neglected vector-borne disease that is always fatal if untreated . In Tanzania it is highly focalised and of major socio-economic and public health importance in affected communities . This study aimed to estimate the public health burden of rhodesiense HAT in terms of DALYs and financial costs in a highly disease endemic area of Tanzania using hospital records . Data was obtained from 143 patients admitted in 2004 for treatment for HAT at Kaliua Health Centre , Urambo District . The direct medical and other indirect costs incurred by individual patients and by the health services were calculated . DALYs were estimated using methods recommended by the Global Burden of Disease Project as well as those used in previous rhodesiense HAT estimates assuming HAT under reporting of 45% , a figure specific for Tanzania . The DALY estimate for HAT in Urambo District with and without age-weighting were 215 . 7 ( 95% CI: 155 . 3–287 . 5 ) and 281 . 6 ( 9
The cytoplasmic peptide:N-glycanase ( Ngly1 in mammals ) is a de-N-glycosylating enzyme that is highly conserved among eukaryotes . It was recently reported that subjects harboring mutations in the NGLY1 gene exhibited severe systemic symptoms ( NGLY1-deficiency ) . While the enzyme obviously has a critical role in mammals , its precise function remains unclear . In this study , we analyzed Ngly1-deficient mice and found that they are embryonic lethal in C57BL/6 background . Surprisingly , the additional deletion of the gene encoding endo-β-N-acetylglucosaminidase ( Engase ) , which is another de-N-glycosylating enzyme but leaves a single GlcNAc at glycosylated Asn residues , resulted in the partial rescue of the lethality of the Ngly1-deficient mice . Additionally , we also found that a change in the genetic background of C57BL/6 mice , produced by crossing the mice with an outbred mouse strain ( ICR ) could partially rescue the embryonic lethality of Ngly1-deficient mice . Viable Ngl
Positional information in developing embryos is specified by spatial gradients of transcriptional regulators . One of the classic systems for studying this is the activation of the hunchback ( hb ) gene in early fruit fly ( Drosophila ) segmentation by the maternally-derived gradient of the Bicoid ( Bcd ) protein . Gene regulation is subject to intrinsic noise which can produce variable expression . This variability must be constrained in the highly reproducible and coordinated events of development . We identify means by which noise is controlled during gene expression by characterizing the dependence of hb mRNA and protein output noise on hb promoter structure and transcriptional dynamics . We use a stochastic model of the hb promoter in which the number and strength of Bcd and Hb ( self-regulatory ) binding sites can be varied . Model parameters are fit to data from WT embryos , the self-regulation mutant hb14F , and lacZ reporter constructs using different portions of the hb promot
Hybridization between humans and Neanderthals has resulted in a low level of Neanderthal ancestry scattered across the genomes of many modern-day humans . After hybridization , on average , selection appears to have removed Neanderthal alleles from the human population . Quantifying the strength and causes of this selection against Neanderthal ancestry is key to understanding our relationship to Neanderthals and , more broadly , how populations remain distinct after secondary contact . Here , we develop a novel method for estimating the genome-wide average strength of selection and the density of selected sites using estimates of Neanderthal allele frequency along the genomes of modern-day humans . We confirm that East Asians had somewhat higher initial levels of Neanderthal ancestry than Europeans even after accounting for selection . We find that the bulk of purifying selection against Neanderthal ancestry is best understood as acting on many weakly deleterious alleles . We propose t
The HIV promoter within the viral long terminal repeat ( LTR ) orchestrates many aspects of the viral life cycle , from the dynamics of viral gene expression and replication to the establishment of a latent state . In particular , after viral integration into the host genome , stochastic fluctuations in viral gene expression amplified by the Tat positive feedback loop can contribute to the formation of either a productive , transactivated state or an inactive state . In a significant fraction of cells harboring an integrated copy of the HIV-1 model provirus ( LTR-GFP-IRES-Tat ) , this bimodal gene expression profile is dynamic , as cells spontaneously and continuously flip between active ( Bright ) and inactive ( Off ) expression modes . Furthermore , these switching dynamics may contribute to the establishment and maintenance of proviral latency , because after viral integration long delays in gene expression can occur before viral transactivation . The HIV-1 promoter contains cis-act
Accurate genome-wide identification of orthologs is a central problem in comparative genomics , a fact reflected by the numerous orthology identification projects developed in recent years . However , only a few reports have compared their accuracy , and indeed , several recent efforts have not yet been systematically evaluated . Furthermore , orthology is typically only assessed in terms of function conservation , despite the phylogeny-based original definition of Fitch . We collected and mapped the results of nine leading orthology projects and methods ( COG , KOG , Inparanoid , OrthoMCL , Ensembl Compara , Homologene , RoundUp , EggNOG , and OMA ) and two standard methods ( bidirectional best-hit and reciprocal smallest distance ) . We systematically compared their predictions with respect to both phylogeny and function , using six different tests . This required the mapping of millions of sequences , the handling of hundreds of millions of predicted pairs of orthologs , and the com
The development of novel therapeutics is urgently required for diseases where existing treatments are failing due to the emergence of resistance . This is particularly pertinent for parasitic infections of the tropics and sub-tropics , referred to collectively as neglected tropical diseases , where the commercial incentives to develop new drugs are weak . One such disease is schistosomiasis , a highly prevalent acute and chronic condition caused by a parasitic helminth infection , with three species of the genus Schistosoma infecting humans . Currently , a single 40-year old drug , praziquantel , is available to treat all infective species , but its use in mass drug administration is leading to signs of drug-resistance emerging . To meet the challenge of developing new therapeutics against this disease , we developed an innovative computational drug repurposing pipeline supported by phenotypic screening . The approach highlighted several protein kinases as interesting new biological ta
Transcription factors are central components of the intracellular regulatory networks that control gene expression . An increasingly recognized phenomenon among human transcription factors is the formation of structure upon target binding . Here , we study the folding and binding of the pKID domain of CREB to the KIX domain of the co-activator CBP . Our simulations of a topology-based Gō-type model predict a coupled folding and binding mechanism , and the existence of partially bound intermediates . From transition-path and Φ-value analyses , we find that the binding transition state resembles the unstructured state in solution , implying that CREB becomes structured only after committing to binding . A change of structure following binding is reminiscent of an induced-fit mechanism and contrasts with models in which binding occurs to pre-structured conformations that exist in the unbound state at equilibrium . Interestingly , increasing the amount of structure in the unbound pKID redu
In 2012 the World Health Assembly adopted resolution WHA65 . 21 on elimination of schistosomiasis , calling for increased investment in schistosomiasis control and support for countries to initiate elimination programs . This study aims to analyze prevalence and intensity of Schistosoma mansoni infection in children in Latin America and the Caribbean countries and territories ( LAC ) , at the second administrative level or lower . A systematic review of schistosomiasis prevalence and intensity of infection was conducted by searching at PubMed , LILACS and EMBASE . Experts on the topic were informally consulted and institutional web pages were reviewed ( PAHO/WHO , Ministries of Health ) . Only SCH infection among children was registered because it can be a ‘proxi-indicator’ of recent transmission by the time the study is conducted . One hundred thirty two full-text articles met the inclusion criteria and provided 1 , 242 prevalence and 199 intensity of infection data points . Most of t
Heterosexual transmission of HIV-1 is characterized by a genetic bottleneck that selects a single viral variant , the transmitted/founder ( TF ) , during most transmission events . To assess viral characteristics influencing HIV-1 transmission , we sequenced 167 near full-length viral genomes and generated 40 infectious molecular clones ( IMC ) including TF variants and multiple non-transmitted ( NT ) HIV-1 subtype C variants from six linked heterosexual transmission pairs near the time of transmission . Consensus-like genomes sensitive to donor antibodies were selected for during transmission in these six transmission pairs . However , TF variants did not demonstrate increased viral fitness in terms of particle infectivity or viral replicative capacity in activated peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMC ) and monocyte-derived dendritic cells ( MDDC ) . In addition , resistance of the TF variant to the antiviral effects of interferon-α ( IFN-α ) was not significantly different from 
Even in the absence of an adaptive immune system in murine models , lymphatic dilatation and dysfunction occur in filarial infections , although severe irreversible lymphedema and elephantiasis appears to require an intact adaptive immune response in human infections . To address how filarial parasites and their antigens influence the lymphatics directly , human lymphatic endothelial cells were exposed to filarial antigens , live parasites , or infected patient serum . Live filarial parasites or filarial antigens induced both significant LEC proliferation and differentiation into tube-like structures in vitro . Moreover , serum from patently infected ( microfilaria positive ) patients and those with longstanding chronic lymphatic obstruction induced significantly increased LEC proliferation compared to sera from uninfected individuals . Differentiation of LEC into tube-like networks was found to be associated with significantly increased levels of matrix metalloproteases and inhibition
Since only a small fraction of environmental bacteria are amenable to laboratory culture , there is great interest in genomic sequencing directly from single cells . Sufficient DNA for sequencing can be obtained from one cell by the Multiple Displacement Amplification ( MDA ) method , thereby eliminating the need to develop culture methods . Here we used a microfluidic device to isolate individual Escherichia coli and amplify genomic DNA by MDA in 60-nl reactions . Our results confirm a report that reduced MDA reaction volume lowers nonspecific synthesis that can result from contaminant DNA templates and unfavourable interaction between primers . The quality of the genome amplification was assessed by qPCR and compared favourably to single-cell amplifications performed in standard 50-μl volumes . Amplification bias was greatly reduced in nanoliter volumes , thereby providing a more even representation of all sequences . Single-cell amplicons from both microliter and nanoliter volumes p
Several viruses from the genus Orthohantavirus are known to cause lethal disease in humans . Sigmodontinae rodents are the main hosts responsible for hantavirus transmission in the tropical forests , savannas , and wetlands of South America . These rodents can shed different hantaviruses , such as the lethal and emerging Araraquara orthohantavirus . Factors that drive variation in host populations may influence hantavirus transmission dynamics within and between populations . Landscape structure , and particularly areas with a predominance of agricultural land and forest remnants , is expected to influence the proportion of hantavirus rodent hosts in the Atlantic Forest rodent community . Here , we tested this using 283 Atlantic Forest rodent capture records and geographically weighted models that allow us to test if predictors vary spatially . We also assessed the correspondence between proportions of hantavirus hosts in rodent communities and a human vulnerability to hantavirus infec
BCL2 family proteins including pro-survival proteins , BH3-only proteins and BAX/BAK proteins control mitochondria-mediated apoptosis to maintain cell homeostasis via the removal of damaged cells and pathogen-infected cells . In this study , we examined the roles of BCL2 proteins in the induction of apoptosis in cells upon infection with flaviviruses , such as Japanese encephalitis virus , Dengue virus and Zika virus . We showed that survival of the infected cells depends on BCLXL , a pro-survival BCL2 protein due to suppression of the expression of another pro-survival protein , MCL1 . Treatment with BCLXL inhibitors , as well as deficient BCLXL gene expression , induced BAX/BAK-dependent apoptosis upon infection with flaviviruses . Flavivirus infection attenuates cellular protein synthesis , which confers reduction of short-half-life proteins like MCL1 . Inhibition of BCLXL increased phagocytosis of virus-infected cells by macrophages , thereby suppressing viral dissemination and che
The global economic impact of canine rabies has been estimated by several studies . Asia bears a disproportionate burden of this zoonosis due to high levels of human deaths and rates of post-exposure prophylaxis ( PEP ) , but low investment in preventative dog vaccination . The same factors that cause rabies to burden much of Asia are also present in Viet Nam . This study estimated the economic burden of canine rabies in a societal perspective including direct and indirect cost of rabies in dogs , livestock , and humans . Using data collected from personal interviews , published literature , published and supplementary reports , and primary data collection , we estimated the economic impact of canine rabies in Viet Nam over a ten year period ( 2005–2014 ) . We incorporated the direct and indirect costs for PEP , dog vaccination efforts , livestock losses , and disability adjusted life years ( DALYs ) into the analysis . General findings from this analysis indicated that over the 10 yea
The Type II Secretion System ( T2SS ) is a molecular machine that drives the secretion of fully-folded protein substrates across the bacterial outer membrane . A key element in the machinery is the secretin: an integral , multimeric outer membrane protein that forms the secretion pore . We show that three distinct forms of T2SSs can be distinguished based on the sequence characteristics of their secretin pores . Detailed comparative analysis of two of these , the Klebsiella-type and Vibrio-type , showed them to be further distinguished by the pilotin that mediates their transport and assembly into the outer membrane . We have determined the crystal structure of the novel pilotin AspS from Vibrio cholerae , demonstrating convergent evolution wherein AspS is functionally equivalent and yet structurally unrelated to the pilotins found in Klebsiella and other bacteria . AspS binds to a specific targeting sequence in the Vibrio-type secretins , enhances the kinetics of secretin assembly , a
Pathogenic Leptospira spp . shed in the urine of reservoir hosts into freshwater can be transmitted to a susceptible host through skin abrasions or mucous membranes causing leptospirosis . The infection process involves the ability of leptospires to adhere to cell surface and extracellular matrix components , a crucial step for dissemination and colonization of host tissues . Therefore , the elucidation of novel mediators of host-pathogen interaction is important in the discovery of virulence factors involved in the pathogenesis of leptospirosis . In this study , we assess the functional roles of transmembrane outer membrane proteins OmpL36 ( LIC13166 ) , OmpL37 ( LIC12263 ) , and OmpL47 ( LIC13050 ) , which we recently identified on the leptospiral surface . We determine the capacity of these proteins to bind to host tissue components by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . OmpL37 binds elastin preferentially , exhibiting dose-dependent , saturating binding to human skin ( Kd , 104±19 
A few broadly neutralizing antibodies , isolated from HIV-1 infected individuals , recognize epitopes in the membrane proximal external region ( MPER ) of gp41 that are transiently exposed during viral entry . The best characterized , 4E10 and 2F5 , are polyreactive , binding to the viral membrane and their epitopes in the MPER . We present a model to calculate , for any antibody concentration , the probability that during the pre-hairpin intermediate , the transient period when the epitopes are first exposed , a bound antibody will disable a trivalent gp41 before fusion is complete . When 4E10 or 2F5 bind to the MPER , a conformational change is induced that results in a stably bound complex . The model predicts that for these antibodies to be effective at neutralization , the time to disable an epitope must be shorter than the time the antibody remains bound in this conformation , about five minutes or less for 4E10 and 2F5 . We investigate the role of avidity in neutralization and s
Mass treatment with ivermectin controls onchocerciasis as a public health problem , but it was not known if it could also interrupt transmission and eliminate the parasite in endemic foci in Africa where vectors are highly efficient . A longitudinal study was undertaken in three hyperendemic foci in Mali and Senegal with 15 to 17 years of annual or six-monthly ivermectin treatment in order to assess residual levels of infection and transmission , and test whether treatment could be safely stopped . This article reports the results of the final evaluations up to 5 years after the last treatment . Skin snip surveys were undertaken in 131 villages where 29 , 753 people were examined and 492 , 600 blackflies were analyzed for the presence of Onchocerca volvulus larva using a specific DNA probe . There was a declining trend in infection and transmission levels after the last treatment . In two sites the prevalence of microfilaria and vector infectivity rate were zero 3 to 4 years after the 
Non-enveloped viruses must deliver their viral genome across a cell membrane without the advantage of membrane fusion . The mechanisms used to achieve this remain poorly understood . Human rhinovirus , a frequent cause of the common cold , is a non-enveloped virus of the picornavirus family , which includes other significant pathogens such as poliovirus and foot-and-mouth disease virus . During picornavirus cell entry , the small myristoylated capsid protein VP4 is released from the virus , interacts with the cell membrane and is implicated in the delivery of the viral RNA genome into the cytoplasm to initiate replication . In this study , we have produced recombinant C-terminal histidine-tagged human rhinovirus VP4 and shown it can induce membrane permeability in liposome model membranes . Dextran size-exclusion studies , chemical crosslinking and electron microscopy demonstrated that VP4 forms a multimeric membrane pore , with a channel size consistent with transfer of the single-str
Francisella tularensis ( Ft ) is a highly infectious Gram-negative bacterium and the causative agent of the human disease tularemia . Ft is designated a class A select agent by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . Human clinical isolates of Ft produce lipid A of similar structure to Ft subspecies novicida ( Fn ) , a pathogen of mice . We identified three enzymes required for Fn lipid A carbohydrate modifications , specifically the presence of mannose ( flmF1 ) , galactosamine ( flmF2 ) , or both carbohydrates ( flmK ) . Mutants lacking either galactosamine ( flmF2 ) or galactosamine/mannose ( flmK ) addition to their lipid A were attenuated in mice by both pulmonary and subcutaneous routes of infection . In addition , aerosolization of the mutants ( flmF2 and flmK ) provided protection against challenge with wild-type ( WT ) Fn , whereas subcutaneous administration of only the flmK mutant provided protection from challenge with WT Fn . Furthermore , infection of an alveolar
Ribosome assembly cofactors are widely conserved across all domains of life . One such group , the ribosome-associated GTPases ( RA-GTPase ) , act as molecular switches to coordinate ribosome assembly . We previously identified the Staphylococcus aureus RA-GTPase Era as a target for the stringent response alarmone ( p ) ppGpp , with binding leading to inhibition of GTPase activity . Era is highly conserved throughout the bacterial kingdom and is essential in many species , although the function of Era in ribosome assembly is unclear . Here we show that Era is not essential in S . aureus but is important for 30S ribosomal subunit assembly . Protein interaction studies reveal that Era interacts with the 16S rRNA endonuclease YbeY and the DEAD-box RNA helicase CshA . We determine that both Era and CshA are required for growth at suboptimal temperatures and rRNA processing . Era and CshA also form direct interactions with the ( p ) ppGpp synthetase RelSau , with RelSau positively impacting
Anthrax lethal toxin ( LT ) induces vascular insufficiency in experimental animals through unknown mechanisms . In this study , we show that neuronal nitric oxide synthase ( nNOS ) deficiency in mice causes strikingly increased sensitivity to LT , while deficiencies in the two other NOS enzymes ( iNOS and eNOS ) have no effect on LT-mediated mortality . The increased sensitivity of nNOS−/− mice was independent of macrophage sensitivity to toxin , or cytokine responses , and could be replicated in nNOS-sufficient wild-type ( WT ) mice through pharmacological inhibition of the enzyme with 7-nitroindazole . Histopathological analyses showed that LT induced architectural changes in heart morphology of nNOS−/− mice , with rapid appearance of novel inter-fiber spaces but no associated apoptosis of cardiomyocytes . LT-treated WT mice had no histopathology observed at the light microscopy level . Electron microscopic analyses of LT-treated mice , however , revealed striking pathological change
Parasitic nematodes infect over 1 billion people worldwide and cause some of the most common neglected tropical diseases . Despite their prevalence , our understanding of the biology of parasitic nematodes has been limited by the lack of tools for genetic intervention . In particular , it has not yet been possible to generate targeted gene disruptions and mutant phenotypes in any parasitic nematode . Here , we report the development of a method for introducing CRISPR-Cas9-mediated gene disruptions in the human-parasitic threadworm Strongyloides stercoralis . We disrupted the S . stercoralis twitchin gene unc-22 , resulting in nematodes with severe motility defects . Ss-unc-22 mutations were resolved by homology-directed repair when a repair template was provided . Omission of a repair template resulted in deletions at the target locus . Ss-unc-22 mutations were heritable; we passed Ss-unc-22 mutants through a host and successfully recovered mutant progeny . Using a similar approach , w
The well established phenomenon of ribosome drop-off plays crucial roles in translational accuracy and nutrient starvation responses during protein translation . When cells are under stress conditions , such as amino acid starvation or aminoacyl-tRNA depletion due to a high level of recombinant protein expression , ribosome drop-off can substantially affect the efficiency of protein expression . Here we introduce a mathematical model that describes the effects of ribosome drop-off on the ribosome density along the mRNA and on the concomitant protein synthesis rate . Our results show that ribosome premature termination may lead to non-intuitive ribosome density profiles , such as a ribosome density which increases from the 5’ to the 3’ end . Importantly , the model predicts that the effects of ribosome drop-off on the translation rate are mRNA-specific , and we quantify their resilience to drop-off , showing that the mRNAs which present ribosome queues are much less affected by ribosome
The current World Health Organization strategy to address soil-transmitted helminth ( STH ) infections in children is based on morbidity control through routine deworming of school and pre-school aged children . However , given that transmission continues to occur as a result of persistent reservoirs of infection in untreated individuals ( including adults ) and in the environment , in many settings such a strategy will need to be continued for very extended periods of time , or until social , economic and environmental conditions result in interruption of transmission . As a result , there is currently much discussion surrounding the possibility of accelerating the interruption of transmission using alternative strategies of mass drug administration ( MDA ) . However , the feasibility of achieving transmission interruption using MDA remains uncertain due to challenges in sustaining high MDA coverage levels across entire communities . The DeWorm3 trial , designed to test the feasibilit
Protective immunity against cholera is serogroup specific . Serogroup specificity in Vibrio cholerae is determined by the O-specific polysaccharide ( OSP ) of lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) . Generally , polysaccharides are poorly immunogenic , especially in young children . Here we report the evaluation in mice of a conjugate vaccine for cholera ( OSP:TThc ) made from V . cholerae O1 Ogawa O-Specific Polysaccharide–core ( OSP ) and recombinant tetanus toxoid heavy chain fragment ( TThc ) . We immunized mice intramuscularly on days 0 , 21 , and 42 with OSP:TThc or OSP only , with or without dmLT , a non-toxigenic immunoadjuvant derived from heat labile toxin of Escherichia coli . We detected significant serum IgG antibody responses targeting OSP following a single immunization in mice receiving OSP:TThc with or without adjuvant . Anti-LPS IgG responses were detected following a second immunization in these cohorts . No anti-OSP or anti-LPS IgG responses were detected at any time in animals
Bacterial-fungal interactions have important physiologic and medical ramifications , but the mechanisms of these interactions are poorly understood . The gut is host to trillions of microorganisms , and bacterial-fungal interactions are likely to be important . Using a neutropenic mouse model of microbial gastrointestinal colonization and dissemination , we show that the fungus Candida albicans inhibits the virulence of the bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa by inhibiting P . aeruginosa pyochelin and pyoverdine gene expression , which plays a critical role in iron acquisition and virulence . Accordingly , deletion of both P . aeruginosa pyochelin and pyoverdine genes attenuates P . aeruginosa virulence . Heat-killed C . albicans has no effect on P . aeruginosa , whereas C . albicans secreted proteins directly suppress P . aeruginosa pyoverdine and pyochelin expression and inhibit P . aeruginosa virulence in mice . Interestingly , suppression or deletion of pyochelin and pyoverdine genes 
Escape mutant ( EM ) virus that evades CD8+ T cell recognition is frequently observed following infection with HIV-1 or SIV . This EM virus is often less replicatively “fit” compared to wild-type ( WT ) virus , as demonstrated by reversion to WT upon transmission of HIV to a naïve host and the association of EM virus with lower viral load in vivo in HIV-1 infection . The rate and timing of reversion is , however , highly variable . We quantified reversion to WT of a series of SIV and SHIV viruses containing minor amounts of WT virus in pigtail macaques using a sensitive PCR assay . Infection with mixes of EM and WT virus containing ≥10% WT virus results in immediate and rapid outgrowth of WT virus at SIV Gag CD8 T cell epitopes within 7 days of infection of pigtail macaques with SHIV or SIV . In contrast , infection with biologically passaged SHIVmn229 viruses with much smaller proportions of WT sequence , or a molecular clone of pure EM SIVmac239 , demonstrated a delayed or slow patte
Various types of genetic modification and selective forces have been implicated in the process of adaptation to novel or adverse environments . However , the underlying molecular mechanisms are not well understood in most natural populations . Here we report that a set of yeast strains collected from Evolution Canyon ( EC ) , Israel , exhibit an extremely high tolerance to the heavy metal cadmium . We found that cadmium resistance is primarily caused by an enhanced function of a metal efflux pump , PCA1 . Molecular analyses demonstrate that this enhancement can be largely attributed to mutations in the promoter sequence , while mutations in the coding region have a minor effect . Reconstruction experiments show that three single nucleotide substitutions in the PCA1 promoter quantitatively increase its activity and thus enhance the cells' cadmium resistance . Comparison among different yeast species shows that the critical nucleotides found in EC strains are conserved and functionally i
Many solid cancers are known to exhibit a high degree of heterogeneity in their deregulation of different oncogenic pathways . We sought to identify major oncogenic pathways in gastric cancer ( GC ) with significant relationships to patient survival . Using gene expression signatures , we devised an in silico strategy to map patterns of oncogenic pathway activation in 301 primary gastric cancers , the second highest cause of global cancer mortality . We identified three oncogenic pathways ( proliferation/stem cell , NF-κB , and Wnt/β-catenin ) deregulated in the majority ( >70% ) of gastric cancers . We functionally validated these pathway predictions in a panel of gastric cancer cell lines . Patient stratification by oncogenic pathway combinations showed reproducible and significant survival differences in multiple cohorts , suggesting that pathway interactions may play an important role in influencing disease behavior . Individual GCs can be successfully taxonomized by oncogenic path
Stress-induced DNA duplex destabilization ( SIDD ) analysis exploits the known structural and energetic properties of DNA to predict sites that are susceptible to strand separation under negative superhelical stress . When this approach was used to calculate the SIDD profile of the entire Escherichia coli K12 genome , it was found that strongly destabilized sites occur preferentially in intergenic regions that are either known or inferred to contain promoters , but rarely occur in coding regions . Here , we investigate whether the genes grouped in different functional categories have characteristic SIDD properties in their upstream flanks . We report that strong SIDD sites in the E . coli K12 genome are statistically significantly overrepresented in the upstream regions of genes encoding transcriptional regulators . In particular , the upstream regions of genes that directly respond to physiological and environmental stimuli are more destabilized than are those regions of genes that ar
High-mobility group ( HMG ) B proteins are eukaryotic DNA-binding proteins characterized by the HMG-box functional motif . These transcription factors play a pivotal role in global genomic functions and in the control of genes involved in specific developmental or metabolic pathways . The filamentous ascomycete Podospora anserina contains 12 HMG-box genes . Of these , four have been previously characterized; three are mating-type genes that control fertilization and development of the fruit-body , whereas the last one encodes a factor involved in mitochondrial DNA stability . Systematic deletion analysis of the eight remaining uncharacterized HMG-box genes indicated that none were essential for viability , but that seven were involved in the sexual cycle . Two HMG-box genes display striking features . PaHMG5 , an ortholog of SpSte11 from Schizosaccharomyces pombe , is a pivotal activator of mating-type genes in P . anserina , whereas PaHMG9 is a repressor of several phenomena specific 
The 2013–2016 West African Ebola virus disease epidemic was unprecedented in terms of the number of cases and survivors . Prior to this epidemic there was limited data available on the persistence of Ebola virus in survivors’ body fluids and the potential risk of transmission , including sexual transmission . Given the urgent need to determine the persistence of Ebola virus in survivors’ body fluids , an observational cohort study was designed and implemented during the epidemic response operation in Sierra Leone . This publication describes study implementation methodology and the key lessons learned . Challenges encountered during implementation included unforeseen duration of follow-up , complexity of interpreting and communicating laboratory results to survivors , and the urgency of translating research findings into public health practice . Strong community engagement helped rapidly implement the study during the epidemic . The study was conducted in two phases . The first phase w
Sensory systems have evolved to respond to input stimuli of certain statistical properties , and to reliably transmit this information through biochemical pathways . Hence , for an experimentally well-characterized sensory system , one ought to be able to extract valuable information about the statistics of the stimuli . Based on dose-response curves from in vivo fluorescence resonance energy transfer ( FRET ) experiments of the bacterial chemotaxis sensory system , we predict the chemical gradients chemotactic Escherichia coli cells typically encounter in their natural environment . To predict average gradients cells experience , we revaluate the phenomenological Weber's law and its generalizations to the Weber-Fechner law and fold-change detection . To obtain full distributions of gradients we use information theory and simulations , considering limitations of information transmission from both cell-external and internal noise . We identify broad distributions of exponential gradient
The life-long supply of blood cells depends on the long-term function of hematopoietic stem cells ( HSCs ) . HSCs are functionally defined by their multi-potency and self-renewal capacity . Because of their self-renewal capacity , HSCs were thought to have indefinite lifespans . However , there is increasing evidence that genetically identical HSCs differ in lifespan and that the lifespan of a HSC is predetermined and HSC-intrinsic . Lifespan is here defined as the time a HSC gives rise to all mature blood cells . This raises the intriguing question: what controls the lifespan of HSCs within the same animal , exposed to the same environment ? We present here a new model based on reliability theory to account for the diversity of lifespans of HSCs . Using clonal repopulation experiments and computational-mathematical modeling , we tested how small-scale , molecular level , failures are dissipated at the HSC population level . We found that the best fit of the experimental data is provid
Approximately one-third of the world's population suffers from chronic helminth infections with no effective vaccines currently available . Antibodies and alternatively activated macrophages ( AAM ) form crucial components of protective immunity against challenge infections with intestinal helminths . However , the mechanisms by which antibodies target these large multi-cellular parasites remain obscure . Alternative activation of macrophages during helminth infection has been linked to signaling through the IL-4 receptor alpha chain ( IL-4Rα ) , but the potential effects of antibodies on macrophage differentiation have not been explored . We demonstrate that helminth-specific antibodies induce the rapid trapping of tissue migrating helminth larvae and prevent tissue necrosis following challenge infection with the natural murine parasite Heligmosomoides polygyrus bakeri ( Hp ) . Mice lacking antibodies ( JH−/− ) or activating Fc receptors ( FcRγ−/− ) harbored highly motile larvae , dev
Chromosome breakage is a major threat to genome integrity . The most accurate way to repair DNA double strand breaks ( DSB ) is homologous recombination ( HR ) with an intact copy of the broken locus . Mobility of the broken DNA has been seen to increase during the search for a donor copy . Observing chromosome dynamics during the earlier steps of HR , mainly the resection from DSB ends that generates recombinogenic single strands , requires a visualization system that does not interfere with the process , and is small relative to the few kilobases of DNA that undergo processing . Current visualization tools , based on binding of fluorescent repressor proteins to arrays of specific binding sites , have the major drawback that highly-repeated DNA and lengthy stretches of strongly bound protein can obstruct chromatin function . We have developed a new , non-intrusive method which uses protein oligomerization rather than operator multiplicity to form visible foci . By applying it to HO cl
People living in areas with active vector-borne transmission of Chagas disease have multiple contacts with its causative agent , Trypanosoma cruzi . Reinfections by T . cruzi are possible at least in animal models leading to lower or even hardly detectable parasitaemia . In humans , although reinfections are thought to have major public health implications by increasing the risk of chronic manifestations of the disease , there is little quantitative knowledge about their frequency and the timing of parasite re-inoculation in the course of the disease . Here , we implemented stochastic agent-based models i ) to estimate the rate of re-inoculation in humans and ii ) to assess how frequent are reinfections during the acute and chronic stages of the disease according to alternative hypotheses on the adaptive immune response following a primary infection . By using a hybrid genetic algorithm , the models were fitted to epidemiological data of Argentinean rural villages where mixed infection
Hyperendemic circulation of all four types of dengue virus ( DENV-1-4 ) has expanded globally , fueling concern for increased incidence of severe dengue . While the majority of DENV infections are subclinical , epidemiologic studies suggest that type-cross-reactive immunity can influence disease outcome in subsequent infections . The mechanisms controlling these differential clinical outcomes remain poorly defined . Blood samples were collected from a cohort of school-aged Thai children who subsequently experienced a subclinical DENV infection or developed dengue illness . PBMC collected prior to infection were stimulated in vitro with DENV and the secretion of 30 cytokines was measured using a multiplexed , bead-based array . Significant differences were found in cytokine production based on both the type of DENV used for stimulation and the occurrence of clinical illness . Secretion of IL-15 and MCP-1 was significantly higher by PBMC of subjects who later developed symptomatic DENV i
Morphogens are classically defined as molecules that control patterning by acting at a distance to regulate gene expression in a concentration-dependent manner . In the Drosophila wing imaginal disc , secreted Hedgehog ( Hh ) forms an extracellular gradient that organizes patterning along the anterior–posterior axis and specifies at least three different domains of gene expression . Although the prevailing view is that Hh functions in the Drosophila wing disc as a classical morphogen , a direct correspondence between the borders of these patterns and Hh concentration thresholds has not been demonstrated . Here , we provide evidence that the interpretation of Hh signaling depends on the history of exposure to Hh and propose that a single concentration threshold is sufficient to support multiple outputs . Using mathematical modeling , we predict that at steady state , only two domains can be defined in response to Hh , suggesting that the boundaries of two or more gene expression pattern
The mechanisms by which ethanol and inhaled anesthetics influence the nervous system are poorly understood . Here we describe the positional cloning and characterization of a new mouse mutation isolated in an N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea ( ENU ) forward mutagenesis screen for animals with enhanced locomotor activity . This allele , Lightweight ( Lwt ) , disrupts the homolog of the Caenorhabditis elegans ( C . elegans ) unc-79 gene . While Lwt/Lwt homozygotes are perinatal lethal , Lightweight heterozygotes are dramatically hypersensitive to acute ethanol exposure . Experiments in C . elegans demonstrate a conserved hypersensitivity to ethanol in unc-79 mutants and extend this observation to the related unc-80 mutant and nca-1;nca-2 double mutants . Lightweight heterozygotes also exhibit an altered response to the anesthetic isoflurane , reminiscent of unc-79 invertebrate mutant phenotypes . Consistent with our initial mapping results , Lightweight heterozygotes are mildly hyperactive when exp
The Anopheles gambiae immune response against Plasmodium falciparum , an etiological agent of human malaria , has been identified as a source of potential anti-Plasmodium genes and mechanisms to be exploited in efforts to control the malaria transmission cycle . One such mechanism is the Imd pathway , a conserved immune signaling pathway that has potent anti-P . falciparum activity . Silencing the expression of caspar , a negative regulator of the Imd pathway , or over-expressing rel2 , an Imd pathway-controlled NFkappaB transcription factor , confers a resistant phenotype on A . gambiae mosquitoes that involves an array of immune effector genes . However , unexplored features of this powerful mechanism that may be essential for the implementation of a malaria control strategy still remain . Using RNA interference to singly or dually silence caspar and other components of the Imd pathway , we have identified genes participating in the anti-Plasmodium signaling module regulated by Caspa
Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells ( BMMSCs ) have been consider as a promising therapy in fibrotic diseases . Experimental models suggest that BMMSCs may be used as an alternative therapy to treat chemical- or physical-induced pulmonary fibrosis . We investigated the anti-fibrotic potential of BMMSCs in an experimental model of lung fibrosis by infection with Paracoccidioides brasiliensis . BMMSCs were isolated and purified from BALB/c mice using standardized methods . BALB/c male mice were inoculated by intranasal infection of 1 . 5x106 P . brasiliensis yeasts . Then , 1x106 BMMSCs were administered intra venous at 8th week post-infection ( p . i . ) . An additional group of mice was treated with itraconazole ( ITC ) two weeks before BMMSCs administration . Animals were sacrificed at 12th week p . i . Histopathological examination , fibrocytes counts , soluble collagen and fibrosis-related genes expression in lungs were evaluated . Additionally , human fibroblasts were treate
The recent geographical expansion of phlebotomine vectors of Leishmania infantum in the Mediterranean subregion has been attributed to ongoing climate changes . At these latitudes , the activity of sand flies is typically seasonal; because seasonal phenomena are also sensitive to general variations in climate , current phenological data sets can provide a baseline for continuing investigations on sand fly population dynamics that may impact on future scenarios of leishmaniasis transmission . With this aim , in 2011–2013 a consortium of partners from eight Mediterranean countries carried out entomological investigations in sites where L . infantum transmission was recently reported . A common protocol for sand fly collection included monthly captures by CDC light traps , complemented by sticky traps in most of the sites . Collections were replicated for more than one season in order to reduce the effects of local weather events . In each site , the trapping effort was left unchanged thr
Orientia tsutsugamushi is the causal agent of scrub typhus , a public health problem in the Asia-Pacific region and a life-threatening disease . O . tsutsugamushi is an obligate intracellular bacterium that mainly infects endothelial cells . We demonstrated here that O . tsutsugamushi also replicated in monocytes isolated from healthy donors . In addition , O . tsutsugamushi altered the expression of more than 4 , 500 genes , as demonstrated by microarray analysis . The expression of type I interferon , interferon-stimulated genes and genes associated with the M1 polarization of macrophages was significantly upregulated . O . tsutsugamushi also induced the expression of apoptosis-related genes and promoted cell death in a small percentage of monocytes . Live organisms were indispensable to the type I interferon response and apoptosis and enhanced the expression of M1-associated cytokines . These data were related to the transcriptional changes detected in mononuclear cells isolated fro
Ants , like many other animals , use visual memory to follow extended routes through complex environments , but it is unknown how their small brains implement this capability . The mushroom body neuropils have been identified as a crucial memory circuit in the insect brain , but their function has mostly been explored for simple olfactory association tasks . We show that a spiking neural model of this circuit originally developed to describe fruitfly ( Drosophila melanogaster ) olfactory association , can also account for the ability of desert ants ( Cataglyphis velox ) to rapidly learn visual routes through complex natural environments . We further demonstrate that abstracting the key computational principles of this circuit , which include one-shot learning of sparse codes , enables the theoretical storage capacity of the ant mushroom body to be estimated at hundreds of independent images . 
Plants utilize an innate immune system to protect themselves from disease . While many molecular components of plant innate immunity resemble the innate immunity of animals , plants also have evolved a number of truly unique defense mechanisms , particularly at the physiological level . Plant’s flexible developmental program allows them the unique ability to simply produce new organs as needed , affording them the ability to replace damaged organs . Here we develop a system to study pathogen-triggered leaf abscission in Arabidopsis . Cauline leaves infected with the bacterial pathogen Pseudomonas syringae abscise as part of the defense mechanism . Pseudomonas syringae lacking a functional type III secretion system fail to elicit an abscission response , suggesting that the abscission response is a novel form of immunity triggered by effectors . HAESA/HAESA-like 2 , INFLORESCENCE DEFICIENT IN ABSCISSION , and NEVERSHED are all required for pathogen-triggered abscission to occur . Additi
Detection of image motion direction begins in the retina , with starburst amacrine cells ( SACs ) playing a major role . SACs generate larger dendritic Ca2+ signals when motion is from their somata towards their dendritic tips than for motion in the opposite direction . To study the mechanisms underlying the computation of direction selectivity ( DS ) in SAC dendrites , electrical responses to expanding and contracting circular wave visual stimuli were measured via somatic whole-cell recordings and quantified using Fourier analysis . Fundamental and , especially , harmonic frequency components were larger for expanding stimuli . This DS persists in the presence of GABA and glycine receptor antagonists , suggesting that inhibitory network interactions are not essential . The presence of harmonics indicates nonlinearity , which , as the relationship between harmonic amplitudes and holding potential indicates , is likely due to the activation of voltage-gated channels . [Ca2+] changes in 
The number of pathogens that are required to infect a host , termed infective dose , varies dramatically across pathogen species . It has recently been predicted that infective dose will depend upon the mode of action of the molecules that pathogens use to facilitate their infection . Specifically , pathogens which use locally acting molecules will require a lower infective dose than pathogens that use distantly acting molecules . Furthermore , it has also been predicted that pathogens with distantly acting immune modulators may be more virulent because they have a large number of cells in the inoculums , which will cause more harm to host cells . We formally test these predictions for the first time using data on 43 different human pathogens from a range of taxonomic groups with diverse life-histories . We found that pathogens using local action do have lower infective doses , but are not less virulent than those using distant action . Instead , we found that virulence was negatively 
Schistosomes are parasitic helminths that cause schistosomiasis , a disease affecting circa 200 million people , primarily in underprivileged regions of the world . Schistosoma mansoni is the most experimentally tractable schistosome species due to its ease of propagation in the laboratory and the high quality of its genome assembly and annotation . Although there is growing interest in microRNAs ( miRNAs ) in trematodes , little is known about the role these molecules play in the context of developmental processes . We use the completely unaware “miRNA-blind” bioinformatics tool Sylamer to analyse the 3’-UTRs of transcripts differentially expressed between the juvenile and adult stages . We show that the miR-277/4989 family target sequence is the only one significantly enriched in the transition from juvenile to adult worms . Further , we describe a novel miRNA , sma-miR-4989 showing that its proximal genomic location to sma-miR-277 suggests that they form a miRNA cluster , and we pro
A large number of SARS-related coronaviruses ( SARSr-CoV ) have been detected in horseshoe bats since 2005 in different areas of China . However , these bat SARSr-CoVs show sequence differences from SARS coronavirus ( SARS-CoV ) in different genes ( S , ORF8 , ORF3 , etc ) and are considered unlikely to represent the direct progenitor of SARS-CoV . Herein , we report the findings of our 5-year surveillance of SARSr-CoVs in a cave inhabited by multiple species of horseshoe bats in Yunnan Province , China . The full-length genomes of 11 newly discovered SARSr-CoV strains , together with our previous findings , reveals that the SARSr-CoVs circulating in this single location are highly diverse in the S gene , ORF3 and ORF8 . Importantly , strains with high genetic similarity to SARS-CoV in the hypervariable N-terminal domain ( NTD ) and receptor-binding domain ( RBD ) of the S1 gene , the ORF3 and ORF8 region , respectively , were all discovered in this cave . In addition , we report the f
Current efforts to control human soil-transmitted helminth ( STH ) infections involve the periodic mass treatment of people , particularly children , in all endemic areas , using benzimidazole and imidothiazole drugs . Given the fact that high levels of resistance have developed to these same drugs in roundworms of livestock , there is a need to monitor drug efficacy in human STHs . The faecal egg count reduction test ( FECRT ) , in which faecal egg output is measured pre- and post-drug treatment , is presently under examination by WHO as a means of detecting the emergence of resistance . We have examined the potential impact of density dependent fecundity on FECRT data . Recent evidence with the canine hookworm indicates that the density dependent egg production phenomenon shows dynamic properties in response to drug treatment . This will impact on measurements of drug efficacy , and hence drug resistance . It is likely that the female worms that survive a FECRT drug treatment in some
The tree-like structure of the mammalian lung is generated from branching morphogenesis , a reiterative process that is precisely regulated by numerous factors . How the cell surface and extra cellular matrix ( ECM ) molecules regulate this process is still poorly understood . Herein , we show that epithelial deletion of Heparan Sulfate ( HS ) synthetase Ext1 resulted in expanded branching tips and reduced branching number , associated with several mesenchymal developmental defects . We further demonstrate an expanded Fgf10 expression and increased FGF signaling activity in Ext1 mutant lungs , suggesting a cell non-autonomous mechanism . Consistent with this , we observed reduced levels of SHH signaling which is responsible for suppressing Fgf10 expression . Moreover , reactivating SHH signaling in mutant lungs rescued the tip dilation phenotype and attenuated FGF signaling . Importantly , the reduced SHH signaling activity did not appear to be caused by decreased Shh expression or pro
Paired-end sequencing is emerging as a key technique for assessing genome rearrangements and structural variation on a genome-wide scale . This technique is particularly useful for detecting copy-neutral rearrangements , such as inversions and translocations , which are common in cancer and can produce novel fusion genes . We address the question of how much sequencing is required to detect rearrangement breakpoints and to localize them precisely using both theoretical models and simulation . We derive a formula for the probability that a fusion gene exists in a cancer genome given a collection of paired-end sequences from this genome . We use this formula to compute fusion gene probabilities in several breast cancer samples , and we find that we are able to accurately predict fusion genes in these samples with a relatively small number of fragments of large size . We further demonstrate how the ability to detect fusion genes depends on the distribution of gene lengths , and we evaluat
Chemotaxis involves the coordinated action of separable but interrelated processes: motility , gradient sensing , and polarization . We have hypothesized that these are mediated by separate modules that account for these processes individually and that , when combined , recreate most of the behaviors of chemotactic cells . Here , we describe a mathematical model where the modules are implemented in terms of reaction-diffusion equations . Migration and the accompanying changes in cellular morphology are demonstrated in simulations using a mechanical model of the cell cortex implemented in the level set framework . The central module is an excitable network that accounts for random migration . The response to combinations of uniform stimuli and gradients is mediated by a local excitation , global inhibition module that biases the direction in which excitability is directed . A polarization module linked to the excitable network through the cytoskeleton allows unstimulated cells to move p
Tudor containing protein 6 ( TDRD6 ) is a male germ line-specific protein essential for chromatoid body ( ChB ) structure , elongated spermatid development and male fertility . Here we show that in meiotic prophase I spermatocytes TDRD6 interacts with the key protein arginine methyl transferase PRMT5 , which supports splicing . TDRD6 also associates with spliceosomal core protein SmB in the absence of RNA and in an arginine methylation dependent manner . In Tdrd6-/- diplotene spermatocytes PRMT5 association with SmB and arginine dimethylation of SmB are much reduced . TDRD6 deficiency impairs the assembly of spliceosomes , which feature 3 . 5-fold increased levels of U5 snRNPs . In the nucleus , these deficiencies in spliceosome maturation correlate with decreased numbers of SMN-positive bodies and Cajal bodies involved in nuclear snRNP maturation . Transcriptome analysis of TDRD6-deficient diplotene spermatocytes revealed high numbers of splicing defects such as aberrant usage of intr
Bacterial populations that colonize a host can play important roles in host health , including serving as a reservoir that transmits to other hosts and from which invasive strains emerge , thus emphasizing the importance of understanding rates of acquisition and clearance of colonizing populations . Studies of colonization dynamics have been based on assessment of whether serial samples represent a single population or distinct colonization events . With the use of whole genome sequencing to determine genetic distance between isolates , a common solution to estimate acquisition and clearance rates has been to assume a fixed genetic distance threshold below which isolates are considered to represent the same strain . However , this approach is often inadequate to account for the diversity of the underlying within-host evolving population , the time intervals between consecutive measurements , and the uncertainty in the estimated acquisition and clearance rates . Here , we present a full
Plants continuously generate new organs through the activity of populations of stem cells called meristems . The shoot apical meristem initiates leaves , flowers , and lateral meristems in highly ordered , spiralled , or whorled patterns via a process called phyllotaxis . It is commonly accepted that the active transport of the plant hormone auxin plays a major role in this process . Current hypotheses propose that cellular hormone transporters of the PIN family would create local auxin maxima at precise positions , which in turn would lead to organ initiation . To explain how auxin transporters could create hormone fluxes to distinct regions within the plant , different concepts have been proposed . A major hypothesis , canalization , proposes that the auxin transporters act by amplifying and stabilizing existing fluxes , which could be initiated , for example , by local diffusion . This convincingly explains the organised auxin fluxes during vein formation , but for the shoot apical 
The search for diagnostic biomarkers has been profiting from a growing number of high quality sequenced genomes and freely available bioinformatic tools . These can be combined with wet lab experiments for a rational search . Improved , point-of-care diagnostic tests for visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) , early case detection and surveillance are required . Previous investigations demonstrated the potential of IgG1 as a biomarker for monitoring clinical status in rapid diagnostic tests ( RDTs ) , although using a crude lysate antigen ( CLA ) as capturing antigen . Replacing the CLA by specific antigens would lead to more robust RDTs . Immunoblots revealed L . donovani protein bands detected by IgG1 from VL patients . Upon confident identification of these antigens by mass spectrometry ( MS ) , we searched for evidence of constitutive protein expression and presence of antigenic domains or high accessibility to B-cells . Selected candidates had their linear epitopes mapped with in silico a
Caseating granulomas are often associated with a mycobacterial infection ( TB ) and are thought to be exceedingly rare in cutaneous leishmaniasis ( CL ) . However , no large series has accurately documented the incidence of caseating granulomas in CL . A multiregional cohort consisting of 317 patients with CL [Syria ( 157 ) , Pakistan ( 66 ) , Lebanon ( 47 ) , Saudi Arabia ( 43 ) , Ethiopia ( 2 ) and Iran ( 2 ) ] was reviewed . Clinical [age , sex , disease duration , lesion type and geographic and anatomic location] and microscopic data [presence of and type of granuloma , Ridley's parasitic index ( PI ) and pattern ( RP ) ] were documented . Presence of microorganisms was evaluated using special stains ( GMS , PAS , AFB and Gram ) and polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) for TB and CL . All cases included in this study were confirmed as CL by PCR followed by restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis for molecular speciation and were negative for other organisms by all other stud
Polygenic type 2 diabetes in mouse models is associated with obesity and results from a combination of adipogenic and diabetogenic alleles . Here we report the identification of a candidate gene for the diabetogenic effect of a QTL ( Nidd/SJL , Nidd1 ) contributed by the SJL , NON , and NZB strains in outcross populations with New Zealand Obese ( NZO ) mice . A critical interval of distal chromosome 4 ( 2 . 1 Mbp ) conferring the diabetic phenotype was identified by interval-specific congenic introgression of SJL into diabetes-resistant C57BL/6J , and subsequent reporter cross with NZO . Analysis of the 10 genes in the critical interval by sequencing , qRT–PCR , and RACE–PCR revealed a striking allelic variance of Zfp69 encoding zinc finger domain transcription factor 69 . In NZO and C57BL/6J , a retrotransposon ( IAPLTR1a ) in intron 3 disrupted the gene by formation of a truncated mRNA that lacked the coding sequence for the KRAB ( Krüppel-associated box ) and Znf-C2H2 domains of Zfp
Alternative cell differentiation pathways are believed to arise from the concerted action of signalling pathways and transcriptional regulatory networks . However , the prediction of mammalian cell differentiation from the knowledge of the presence of specific signals and transcriptional factors is still a daunting challenge . In this respect , the vertebrate hematopoietic system , with its many branching differentiation pathways and cell types , is a compelling case study . In this paper , we propose an integrated , comprehensive model of the regulatory network and signalling pathways controlling Th cell differentiation . As most available data are qualitative , we rely on a logical formalism to perform extensive dynamical analyses . To cope with the size and complexity of the resulting network , we use an original model reduction approach together with a stable state identification algorithm . To assess the effects of heterogeneous environments on Th cell differentiation , we have pe
Transcription factors that drive complex patterns of gene expression during animal development bind to thousands of genomic regions , with quantitative differences in binding across bound regions mediating their activity . While we now have tools to characterize the DNA affinities of these proteins and to precisely measure their genome-wide distribution in vivo , our understanding of the forces that determine where , when , and to what extent they bind remains primitive . Here we use a thermodynamic model of transcription factor binding to evaluate the contribution of different biophysical forces to the binding of five regulators of early embryonic anterior-posterior patterning in Drosophila melanogaster . Predictions based on DNA sequence and in vitro protein-DNA affinities alone achieve a correlation of ∼0 . 4 with experimental measurements of in vivo binding . Incorporating cooperativity and competition among the five factors , and accounting for spatial patterning by modeling bindi
One of the major issues in developmental biology is about having a better understanding of the mechanisms that regulate organ growth . Identifying these mechanisms is essential to understand the development processes that occur both in physiological and pathological conditions , such as cancer . The E protein family of basic helix-loop helix ( bHLH ) transcription factors , and their inhibitors the Id proteins , regulate cell proliferation in metazoans . This notion is further supported because the activity of these factors is frequently deregulated in cancerous cells . The E protein orthologue Daughterless ( Da ) and the Id orthologue Extramacrochaetae ( Emc ) are the only members of these classes of bHLH proteins in Drosophila . Although these factors are involved in controlling proliferation , the mechanism underlying this regulatory activity is poorly understood . Through a genetic analysis , we show that during the development of epithelial cells in the imaginal discs , the G2/M t
Reversible phosphorylation is one of the major mechanisms of signal transduction , and signaling networks are critical regulators of cell growth and development . However , few of these networks have been delineated completely . Towards this end , quantitative phosphoproteomics is emerging as a useful tool enabling large-scale determination of relative phosphorylation levels . However , phosphoproteomics differs from classical proteomics by a more extensive sampling limitation due to the limited number of detectable sites per protein . Here , we propose a comprehensive quantitative analysis pipeline customized for phosphoproteome data from interventional experiments for identifying key proteins in specific pathways , discovering the protein-protein interactions and inferring the signaling network . We also made an effort to partially compensate for the missing value problem , a chronic issue for proteomics studies . The dataset used for this study was generated using SILAC ( Stable Iso
The evolution of heteromorphic sex chromosomes ( e . g . , XY in males or ZW in females ) has repeatedly elicited the evolution of two kinds of chromosome-specific regulation: dosage compensation—the equalization of X chromosome gene expression in males and females— and meiotic sex chromosome inactivation ( MSCI ) —the transcriptional silencing and heterochromatinization of the X during meiosis in the male ( or Z in the female ) germline . How the X chromosome is regulated in the Drosophila melanogaster male germline is unclear . Here we report three new findings concerning gene expression from the X in Drosophila testes . First , X chromosome-wide dosage compensation appears to be absent from most of the Drosophila male germline . Second , microarray analysis provides no evidence for X chromosome-specific inactivation during meiosis . Third , we confirm the previous discovery that the expression of transgene reporters driven by autosomal spermatogenesis-specific promoters is strongly 
Citrobacter rodentium infection is a mouse model for the important human diarrheal infection caused by enteropathogenic E . coli ( EPEC ) . The pathogenesis of both species is very similar and depends on their unique ability to form intimately epithelium-adherent microcolonies , also known as “attachment/effacement” ( A/E ) lesions . These microcolonies must be dynamic and able to self-renew by continuous re-infection of the rapidly regenerating epithelium . It is unknown whether sustained epithelial A/E lesion pathogenesis is achieved through re-infection by planktonic bacteria from the luminal compartment or local spread of sessile bacteria without a planktonic phase . Focusing on the earliest events as C . rodentium becomes established , we show here that all colonic epithelial A/E microcolonies are clonal bacterial populations , and thus depend on local clonal growth to persist . In wild-type mice , microcolonies are established exclusively within the first 18 hours of infection . 
Measuring the overlap between two populations is , in principle , straightforward . Upon fully sampling both populations , the number of shared objects—species , taxonomical units , or gene variants , depending on the context—can be directly counted . In practice , however , only a fraction of each population’s objects are likely to be sampled due to stochastic data collection or sequencing techniques . Although methods exists for quantifying population overlap under subsampled conditions , their bias is well documented and the uncertainty of their estimates cannot be quantified . Here we derive and validate a method to rigorously estimate the population overlap from incomplete samples when the total number of objects , species , or genes in each population is known , a special case of the more general β-diversity problem that is particularly relevant in the ecology and genomic epidemiology of malaria . By solving a Bayesian inference problem , this method takes into account the rates 
Eukaryotic protein kinases regulate most cellular functions by phosphorylating targeted protein substrates through a highly conserved catalytic core . In the active state , the catalytic core oscillates between open , intermediate , and closed conformations . Currently , the intramolecular interactions that regulate the active state mechanics are not well understood . Here , using cAMP-dependent protein kinase as a representative model coupled with biochemical , biophysical , and computational techniques , we define a set of highly conserved electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions working harmoniously to regulate these mechanics . These include the previously identified salt bridge between a lysine from the β3-strand and a glutamate from the αC-helix as well as an electrostatic interaction between the phosphorylated activation loop and αC-helix and an ensemble of hydrophobic residues of the Regulatory spine and Shell . Moreover , for over three decades it was thought that the highly
Under the Global Programme to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis ( LF ) , American Samoa conducted seven rounds of mass drug administration ( MDA ) from 2000–2006 . The World Health Organization recommends systematic post-MDA surveillance using Transmission Assessment Surveys ( TAS ) for epidemiological assessment of recent LF transmission . We compared the effectiveness of two survey designs for post-MDA surveillance: a school-based survey of children aged 6–7 years , and a community-based survey targeting people aged ≥8 years . In 2016 , we conducted a systematic school-based TAS in all elementary schools ( N = 29 ) and a cluster survey in 28 villages on the two main islands of American Samoa . We collected information on demographics and risk factors for infection using electronic questionnaires , and recorded geo-locations of schools and households . Blood samples were collected to test for circulating filarial antigen ( CFA ) using the Alere Filariasis Test Strip . For those who teste
Although the zebrafish is a major model organism , how they determine sex is not well understood . In domesticated zebrafish , sex determination appears to be polygenic , being influenced by multiple genetic factors that may vary from strain to strain , and additionally can be influenced by environmental factors . However , the requirement of germ cells for female sex determination is well documented: animals that lack germ cells , or oocytes in particular , develop exclusively as males . Recently , it has been determined that oocytes are also required throughout the adult life of the animal to maintain the differentiated female state . How oocytes control sex differentiation and maintenance of the sexual phenotype is unknown . We therefore generated targeted mutations in genes for two oocyte produced signaling molecules , Bmp15 and Gdf9 and here report a novel role for Bmp15 in maintaining adult female sex differentiation in zebrafish . Females deficient in Bmp15 begin development nor
Hox proteins play fundamental roles in controlling morphogenetic diversity along the anterior–posterior body axis of animals by regulating distinct sets of target genes . Within their rather broad expression domains , individual Hox proteins control cell diversification and pattern formation and consequently target gene expression in a highly localized manner , sometimes even only in a single cell . To achieve this high-regulatory specificity , it has been postulated that Hox proteins co-operate with other transcription factors to activate or repress their target genes in a highly context-specific manner in vivo . However , only a few of these factors have been identified . Here , we analyze the regulation of the cell death gene reaper ( rpr ) by the Hox protein Deformed ( Dfd ) and suggest that local activation of rpr expression in the anterior part of the maxillary segment is achieved through a combinatorial interaction of Dfd with at least eight functionally diverse transcriptional 
Plants react to pathogen attack via recognition of , and response to , pathogen-specific molecules at the cell surface and inside the cell . Pathogen effectors ( virulence factors ) are monitored by intracellular nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat ( NB-LRR ) sensor proteins in plants and mammals . Here , we study the genetic requirements for defense responses of an autoactive mutant of ADR1-L2 , an Arabidopsis coiled-coil ( CC ) -NB-LRR protein . ADR1-L2 functions upstream of salicylic acid ( SA ) accumulation in several defense contexts , and it can act in this context as a “helper” to transduce specific microbial activation signals from “sensor” NB-LRRs . This helper activity does not require an intact P-loop . ADR1-L2 and another of two closely related members of this small NB-LRR family are also required for propagation of unregulated runaway cell death ( rcd ) in an lsd1 mutant . We demonstrate here that , in this particular context , ADR1-L2 function is P-loop dependent . We 
The SU ( VAR ) 3-9 homolog SUVH9 and the double-stranded RNA-binding protein IDN2 were thought to be components of an RNA-directed DNA methylation ( RdDM ) pathway in Arabidopsis . We previously found that SUVH9 interacts with MORC6 but how the interaction contributes to transcriptional silencing remains elusive . Here , our genetic analysis indicates that SUVH2 and SUVH9 can either act in the same pathway as MORC6 or act synergistically with MORC6 to mediate transcriptional silencing . Moreover , we demonstrate that IDN2 interacts with MORC6 and mediates the silencing of a subset of MORC6 target loci . Like SUVH2 , SUVH9 , and IDN2 , other RdDM components including Pol IV , Pol V , RDR2 , and DRM2 are also required for transcriptional silencing at a subset of MORC6 target loci . MORC6 was previously shown to mediate transcriptional silencing through heterochromatin condensation . We demonstrate that the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complex components SWI3B , SWI3C , and SWI3D interact
Compromised heat shock protein 90 ( Hsp90 ) function reveals cryptic phenotypes in flies and plants . These observations were interpreted to suggest that this molecular stress-response chaperone has a capacity to buffer underlying genetic variation . Conversely , the protective role of Hsp90 could account for the variable penetrance or severity of some heritable developmental malformations in vertebrates . Using zebrafish as a model , we defined Hsp90 inhibitor levels that did not induce a heat shock response or perturb phenotype in wild-type strains . Under these conditions the severity of the recessive eye phenotype in sunrise , caused by a pax6b mutation , was increased , while in dreumes , caused by a sufu mutation , it was decreased . In another strain , a previously unobserved spectrum of severe structural eye malformations , reminiscent of anophthalmia , microphthalmia , and nanophthalmia complex in humans , was uncovered by this limited inhibition of Hsp90 function . Inbreeding
Protein modifications play a major role for most biological processes in living organisms . Amino-terminal acetylation of proteins is a common modification found throughout the tree of life: the N-terminus of a nascent polypeptide chain becomes co-translationally acetylated , often after the removal of the initiating methionine residue . While the enzymes and protein complexes involved in these processes have been extensively studied , only little is known about the biological function of such N-terminal modification events . To identify common principles of N-terminal acetylation , we analyzed the amino-terminal peptides from proteins extracted from Drosophila Kc167 cells . We detected more than 1 , 200 mature protein N-termini and could show that N-terminal acetylation occurs in insects with a similar frequency as in humans . As the sole true determinant for N-terminal acetylation we could extract the ( X ) PX rule that indicates the prevention of acetylation under all circumstances 
The ability of RNA polymerase ( RNAP ) III to efficiently recycle from termination to reinitiation is critical for abundant tRNA production during cellular proliferation , development and cancer . Yet understanding of the unique termination mechanisms used by RNAP III is incomplete , as is its link to high transcription output . We used two tRNA-mediated suppression systems to screen for Rpc1 mutants with gain- and loss- of termination phenotypes in S . pombe . 122 point mutation mutants were mapped to a recently solved 3 . 9 Å structure of yeast RNAP III elongation complex ( EC ) ; they cluster in the active center bridge helix and trigger loop , as well as the pore and funnel , the latter of which indicate involvement of the RNA cleavage domain of the C11 subunit in termination . Purified RNAP III from a readthrough ( RT ) mutant exhibits increased elongation rate . The data strongly support a kinetic coupling model in which elongation rate is inversely related to termination efficie
Current experiments likely cover only a fraction of all protein-protein interactions . Here , we developed a method to predict SH2-mediated protein-protein interactions using the structure of SH2-phosphopeptide complexes and the FoldX algorithm . We show that our approach performs similarly to experimentally derived consensus sequences and substitution matrices at predicting known in vitro and in vivo targets of SH2 domains . We use our method to provide a set of high-confidence interactions for human SH2 domains with known structure filtered on secondary structure and phosphorylation state . We validated the predictions using literature-derived SH2 interactions and a probabilistic score obtained from a naive Bayes integration of information on coexpression , conservation of the interaction in other species , shared interaction partners , and functions . We show how our predictions lead to a new hypothesis for the role of SH2 domains in signaling . 
The accumulation of amyloidogenic proteins is a pathological hallmark of neurodegenerative disorders . The aberrant accumulation of the microtubule associating protein tau ( MAPT , tau ) into toxic oligomers and amyloid deposits is a primary pathology in tauopathies , the most common of which is Alzheimer’s disease ( AD ) . Intrinsically disordered proteins , like tau , are enriched with proline residues that regulate both secondary structure and aggregation propensity . The orientation of proline residues is regulated by cis/trans peptidyl-prolyl isomerases ( PPIases ) . Here we show that cyclophilin 40 ( CyP40 ) , a PPIase , dissolves tau amyloids in vitro . Additionally , CyP40 ameliorated silver-positive and oligomeric tau species in a mouse model of tau accumulation , preserving neuronal health and cognition . Nuclear magnetic resonance ( NMR ) revealed that CyP40 interacts with tau at sites rich in proline residues . CyP40 was also able to interact with and disaggregate other agg
Heterocyst differentiation in cyanobacteria filaments is one of the simplest examples of cellular differentiation and pattern formation in multicellular organisms . Despite of the many experimental studies addressing the evolution and sustainment of heterocyst patterns and the knowledge of the genetic circuit underlying the behavior of single cyanobacterium under nitrogen deprivation , there is still a theoretical gap connecting these two macroscopic and microscopic processes . As an attempt to shed light on this issue , here we explore heterocyst differentiation under the paradigm of systems biology . This framework allows us to formulate the essential dynamical ingredients of the genetic circuit of a single cyanobacterium into a set of differential equations describing the time evolution of the concentrations of the relevant molecular products . As a result , we are able to study the behavior of a single cyanobacterium under different external conditions , emulating nitrogen deprivat
The fight against onchocerciasis in Africa has boomed thanks to the Community Directed Treatment with Ivermectin ( CDTI ) program . However , in Cameroon , after more than 15 years of mass treatment , onchocerciasis prevalence is still above the non-transmission threshold . This study aimed to explore a possible association between people’s beliefs/perceptions of onchocerciasis and of CDTI program , and their adherence to ivermectin in three regions of Cameroon . A cross sectional survey was carried out in three health districts with persistent high onchocerciasis prevalence . Participants were randomly selected in 30 clusters per district . Adherence to ivermectin was comparable between Bafang and Bafia ( 55 . 0% and 48 . 8% , respectively , p>0 . 05 ) and lower in Yabassi ( 40 . 7% ) . Among all factors related to program perceptions and disease representations that were studied , perceptions of the program are the ones that were most determinant in adherence to ivermectin . People w
Associations between epigenetic alterations and disease status have been identified for many diseases . However , there is no strong evidence that epigenetic alterations are directly causal for disease pathogenesis . In this study , we combined SNP and DNA methylation data with measurements of protein biomarkers for cancer , inflammation or cardiovascular disease , to investigate the relative contribution of genetic and epigenetic variation on biomarker levels . A total of 121 protein biomarkers were measured and analyzed in relation to DNA methylation at 470 , 000 genomic positions and to over 10 million SNPs . We performed epigenome-wide association study ( EWAS ) and genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) analyses , and integrated biomarker , DNA methylation and SNP data using between 698 and 1033 samples depending on data availability for the different analyses . We identified 124 and 45 loci ( Bonferroni adjusted P < 0 . 05 ) with effect sizes up to 0 . 22 standard units’ change p
Natural killer ( NK ) cells are implicated as important anti-viral immune effectors in varicella zoster virus ( VZV ) infection . VZV can productively infect human NK cells , yet it is unknown how , or if , VZV can directly affect NK cell function . Here we demonstrate that VZV potently impairs the ability of NK cells to respond to target cell stimulation in vitro , leading to a loss of both cytotoxic and cytokine responses . Remarkably , not only were VZV infected NK cells affected , but VZV antigen negative NK cells that were exposed to virus in culture were also inhibited . This powerful impairment of function was dependent on direct contact between NK cells and VZV infected inoculum cells . Profiling of the NK cell surface receptor phenotype by multiparameter flow cytometry revealed that functional receptor expression is predominantly stable . Furthermore , inhibited NK cells were still capable of releasing cytotoxic granules when the stimulation signal bypassed receptor/ligand int
Two stimuli alternately presented at different locations can evoke a percept of a stimulus continuously moving between the two locations . The neural mechanism underlying this apparent motion ( AM ) is thought to be increased activation of primary visual cortex ( V1 ) neurons tuned to locations along the AM path , although evidence remains inconclusive . AM masking , which refers to the reduced detectability of stimuli along the AM path , has been taken as evidence for AM-related V1 activation . AM-induced neural responses are thought to interfere with responses to physical stimuli along the path and as such impair the perception of these stimuli . However , AM masking can also be explained by predictive coding models , predicting that responses to stimuli presented on the AM path are suppressed when they match the spatio-temporal prediction of a stimulus moving along the path . In the present study , we find that AM has a distinct effect on the detection of target gratings , limiting 
The HTLV-1 oncoprotein Tax plays a key role in CD4+ T cell transformation by promoting cell proliferation and survival , mainly through permanent activation of the NK-κB pathway and induction of many NF-κB target genes . Elucidating the underlying molecular mechanism is therefore critical in understanding HTLV-1-mediated transformation . Current studies have suggested multiple but controversial mechanisms regarding Tax-induced IKK activation mainly due to blending of primary Tax-induced IKK activation events and secondary IKK activation events induced by cytokines secreted by the primary Tax-induced IKK-NF-κB activation events . We reconstituted Tax-stimulated IKK activation in a cell-free system to dissect the essential cellular components for primary IKK activation by Tax and studied the underlying biochemical mechanism . We found that Tax is a putative E3 ubiquitin ligase , which , together with UbcH2 , UhcH5c , or UbcH7 , catalyzes the assembly of free mixed-linkage polyubiquitin c
A consistent determinant of the establishment success of alien species appears to be the number of individuals that are introduced to found a population ( propagule pressure ) , yet variation in the form of this relationship has been largely unexplored . Here , we present the first quantitative systematic review of this form , using Bayesian meta-analytical methods . The relationship between propagule pressure and establishment success has been evaluated for a broad range of taxa and life histories , including invertebrates , herbaceous plants and long-lived trees , and terrestrial and aquatic vertebrates . We found a positive mean effect of propagule pressure on establishment success to be a feature of every hypothesis we tested . However , establishment success most critically depended on propagule pressures in the range of 10–100 individuals . Heterogeneity in effect size was associated primarily with different analytical approaches , with some evidence of larger effect sizes in ani
Interleukin 17A ( IL-17 ) , a mediator implicated in chronic and severe inflammatory diseases , enhances the production of pro-inflammatory mediators by attenuating decay of the encoding mRNAs . The decay of many of these mRNAs depends on proteins ( AUBps ) that target AU-rich elements in the 3′-untranslated region of mRNAs and facilitate either mRNA decay or stabilization . Here we show that AUBps and the target mRNA assemble in a novel ribonucleoprotein complex in the presence of microRNA16 ( miR16 ) , which leads to the degradation of the target mRNA . Notably , IL-17 attenuates miR16 expression and promotes the binding of stabilizing AUBps over that of destabilizing AUBps , reducing mRNA decay . These findings indicate that miR16 independently of a seed sequence , directs the competition between degrading and stabilizing AUBps for target mRNAs . Since AUBps affect expression of about 8% of the human transcriptome and miR16 is ubiquitously expressed , IL-17 may in addition to inflam
Uganda has active foci of both chronic and acute HAT with the acute zoonotic form of disease classically considered to be restricted to southeast Uganda , while the focus of the chronic form of HAT was confined to the northwest of the country . Acute HAT has however been migrating from its traditional disease focus , spreading rapidly to new districts , a spread linked to movement of infected cattle following restocking . Cattle act as long-term reservoirs of human infective T . b . rhodesiense showing few signs of morbidity , yet posing a significant risk to human health . It is important to understand the relationship between infected cattle and infected individuals so that an appropriate response can be made to the risk posed to the community from animals infected with human pathogens in a village setting . This paper examines the relationship between human T . b . rhodesiense infection and human infective and non-human T . brucei s . l . circulating in cattle at village level in Ka
MOF is the major histone H4 lysine 16-specific ( H4K16 ) acetyltransferase in mammals and Drosophila . In flies , it is involved in the regulation of X-chromosomal and autosomal genes as part of the MSL and the NSL complexes , respectively . While the function of the MSL complex as a dosage compensation regulator is fairly well understood , the role of the NSL complex in gene regulation is still poorly characterized . Here we report a comprehensive ChIP–seq analysis of four NSL complex members ( NSL1 , NSL3 , MBD-R2 , and MCRS2 ) throughout the Drosophila melanogaster genome . Strikingly , the majority ( 85 . 5% ) of NSL-bound genes are constitutively expressed across different cell types . We find that an increased abundance of the histone modifications H4K16ac , H3K4me2 , H3K4me3 , and H3K9ac in gene promoter regions is characteristic of NSL-targeted genes . Furthermore , we show that these genes have a well-defined nucleosome free region and broad transcription initiation patterns .
Facioscapulohumeral dystrophy ( FSHD ) is a progressive muscular dystrophy caused by decreased epigenetic repression of the D4Z4 macrosatellite repeats and ectopic expression of DUX4 , a retrogene encoding a germline transcription factor encoded in each repeat . Unaffected individuals generally have more than 10 repeats arrayed in the subtelomeric region of chromosome 4 , whereas the most common form of FSHD ( FSHD1 ) is caused by a contraction of the array to fewer than 10 repeats , associated with decreased epigenetic repression and variegated expression of DUX4 in skeletal muscle . We have generated transgenic mice carrying D4Z4 arrays from an FSHD1 allele and from a control allele . These mice recapitulate important epigenetic and DUX4 expression attributes seen in patients and controls , respectively , including high DUX4 expression levels in the germline , ( incomplete ) epigenetic repression in somatic tissue , and FSHD–specific variegated DUX4 expression in sporadic muscle nucl
Malaria vaccine candidate Apical Membrane Antigen-1 ( AMA1 ) induces protection , but only against parasite strains that are closely related to the vaccine . Overcoming the AMA1 diversity problem will require an understanding of the structural basis of cross-strain invasion inhibition . A vaccine containing four diverse allelic proteins 3D7 , FVO , HB3 and W2mef ( AMA1 Quadvax or QV ) elicited polyclonal rabbit antibodies that similarly inhibited the invasion of four vaccine and 22 non-vaccine strains of P . falciparum . Comparing polyclonal anti-QV with antibodies against a strain-specific , monovalent , 3D7 AMA1 vaccine revealed that QV induced higher levels of broadly inhibitory antibodies which were associated with increased conserved face and domain-3 responses and reduced domain-2 response . Inhibitory monoclonal antibodies ( mAb ) raised against the QV reacted with a novel cross-reactive epitope at the rim of the hydrophobic trough on domain-1; this epitope mapped to the conserv
The displacement of the mitotic spindle to one side of a cell is important for many cells to divide unequally . While recent progress has begun to unveil some of the molecular mechanisms of mitotic spindle displacement , far less is known about how spindle displacement is precisely timed . A conserved mitotic progression mechanism is known to time events in dividing cells , although this has never been linked to spindle displacement . This mechanism involves the anaphase-promoting complex ( APC ) , its activator Cdc20/Fizzy , its degradation target cyclin , and cyclin-dependent kinase ( CDK ) . Here we show that these components comprise a previously unrecognized timer for spindle displacement . In the Caenorhabditis elegans zygote , mitotic spindle displacement begins at a precise time , soon after chromosomes congress to the metaphase plate . We found that reducing the function of the proteasome , the APC , or Cdc20/Fizzy delayed spindle displacement . Conversely , inactivating CDK i
High-altitude hypoxia ( reduced inspired oxygen tension due to decreased barometric pressure ) exerts severe physiological stress on the human body . Two high-altitude regions where humans have lived for millennia are the Andean Altiplano and the Tibetan Plateau . Populations living in these regions exhibit unique circulatory , respiratory , and hematological adaptations to life at high altitude . Although these responses have been well characterized physiologically , their underlying genetic basis remains unknown . We performed a genome scan to identify genes showing evidence of adaptation to hypoxia . We looked across each chromosome to identify genomic regions with previously unknown function with respect to altitude phenotypes . In addition , groups of genes functioning in oxygen metabolism and sensing were examined to test the hypothesis that particular pathways have been involved in genetic adaptation to altitude . Applying four population genetic statistics commonly used for det
Double strand DNA breaks ( DSBs ) are dangerous events that can result from various causes including environmental assaults or the collapse of DNA replication . While the efficient and precise repair of DSBs is essential for cell survival , faulty repair can lead to genetic instability , making the choice of DSB repair an important step . Here we report that inverted DNA repeats ( IRs ) placed near a DSB can channel its repair from an accurate pathway that leads to gene conversion to instead a break-induced replication ( BIR ) pathway that leads to genetic instabilities . The effect of IRs is explained by their ability to form unusual DNA structures when present in ssDNA that is formed by DSB resection . We demonstrate that IRs can form two types of unusual DNA structures , and the choice between these structures depends on the length of the spacer separating IRs . In particular , IRs separated by a long ( 1-kb ) spacer are predominantly involved in inter-molecular single-strand anneal
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic pathogen capable of causing both acute and chronic infections in susceptible hosts . Chronic P . aeruginosa infections are thought to be caused by bacterial biofilms . Biofilms are highly structured , multicellular , microbial communities encased in an extracellular matrix that enable long-term survival in the host . The aim of this research was to develop an animal model that would allow an in vivo study of P . aeruginosa biofilm infections in a Drosophila melanogaster host . At 24 h post oral infection of Drosophila , P . aeruginosa biofilms localized to and were visualized in dissected Drosophila crops . These biofilms had a characteristic aggregate structure and an extracellular matrix composed of DNA and exopolysaccharide . P . aeruginosa cells recovered from in vivo grown biofilms had increased antibiotic resistance relative to planktonically grown cells . In vivo , biofilm formation was dependent on expression of the pel exopolysacchari
Certain genes exhibit notable diversity in their expression patterns both within and between species . One such gene is the vasopressin receptor 1a gene ( Avpr1a ) , which exhibits striking differences in neural expression patterns that are responsible for mediating differences in vasopressin-mediated social behaviors . The genomic mechanisms that contribute to these remarkable differences in expression are not well understood . Previous work has suggested that both the proximal 5′ flanking region and a polymorphic microsatellite element within that region of the vole Avpr1a gene are associated with variation in V1a receptor ( V1aR ) distribution and behavior , but neither has been causally linked . Using homologous recombination in mice , we reveal the modest contribution of proximal 5′ flanking sequences to species differences in V1aR distribution , and confirm that variation in V1aR distribution impacts stress-coping in the forced swim test . We also demonstrate that the vole Avpr1a
Transcription of the switch ( S ) regions of immunoglobulin genes in B cells generates stable R-loops that are targeted by Activation Induced Cytidine Deaminase ( AID ) , triggering class switch recombination ( CSR ) , as well as translocations with c-MYC responsible for Burkitt's lymphomas . In Saccharomyces cerevisiae , stable R-loops are formed co-transcriptionally in mutants of THO , a conserved nuclear complex involved in mRNP biogenesis . Such R-loops trigger genome instability and facilitate deamination by human AID . To understand the mechanisms that generate genome instability mediated by mRNP biogenesis impairment and by AID , we devised a yeast chromosomal system based on different segments of mammalian S regions and c-MYC for the analysis of chromosomal rearrangements in both wild-type and THO mutants . We demonstrate that AID acts in yeast at heterologous S and c-MYC transcribed sequences leading to double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) which in turn cause chromosomal translocatio
Coordination between cell division and chromosome replication is essential for a cell to produce viable progeny . In the commonly accepted view , Escherichia coli realize this coordination via the accurate positioning of its cell division apparatus relative to the nucleoids . However , E . coli lacking proper positioning of its cell division planes can still successfully propagate . Here , we characterize how these cells partition their chromosomes into daughters during such asymmetric divisions . Using quantitative time-lapse imaging , we show that DNA translocase , FtsK , can pump as much as 80% ( 3 . 7 Mb ) of the chromosome between daughters at an average rate of 1700±800 bp/s . Pauses in DNA translocation are rare , and in no occasions did we observe reversals at experimental time scales of a few minutes . The majority of DNA movement occurs at the latest stages of cell division when the cell division protein ZipA has already dissociated from the septum , and the septum has closed
Epitope-based vaccines ( EVs ) have a wide range of applications: from therapeutic to prophylactic approaches , from infectious diseases to cancer . The development of an EV is based on the knowledge of target-specific antigens from which immunogenic peptides , so-called epitopes , are derived . Such epitopes form the key components of the EV . Due to regulatory , economic , and practical concerns the number of epitopes that can be included in an EV is limited . Furthermore , as the major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) binding these epitopes is highly polymorphic , every patient possesses a set of MHC class I and class II molecules of differing specificities . A peptide combination effective for one person can thus be completely ineffective for another . This renders the optimal selection of these epitopes an important and interesting optimization problem . In this work we present a mathematical framework based on integer linear programming ( ILP ) that allows the formulation of va
The majority of HIV-1 infections in women occur through vaginal intercourse , in which virus-containing semen is deposited on the cervico-vaginal mucosa . Semen is more than a mere carrier of HIV-1 , since it contains many biological factors , in particular cytokines , that may affect HIV-1 transmission . The concentration of interleukin ( IL ) -7 , one of the most prominent cytokines in semen of healthy individuals , is further increased in semen of HIV-1-infected men . Here , we investigated the potential role of IL-7 in HIV-1 vaginal transmission in an ex vivo system of human cervico-vaginal tissue . We simulated an in vivo situation by depositing HIV-1 on cervico-vaginal tissue in combination with IL-7 at concentrations comparable with those measured in semen of HIV-1-infected individuals . We found that IL-7 significantly enhanced virus replication in ex vivo infected cervico-vaginal tissue . Similarly , we observed an enhancement of HIV-1 replication in lymphoid tissue explants .
RNA interference ( RNAi ) controls arbovirus infections in mosquitoes . Two different RNAi pathways are involved in antiviral responses: the PIWI-interacting RNA ( piRNA ) and exogenous short interfering RNA ( exo-siRNA ) pathways , which are characterized by the production of virus-derived small RNAs of 25–29 and 21 nucleotides , respectively . The exo-siRNA pathway is considered to be the key mosquito antiviral response mechanism . In Aedes aegypti-derived cells , Zika virus ( ZIKV ) -specific siRNAs were produced and loaded into the exo-siRNA pathway effector protein Argonaute 2 ( Ago2 ) ; although the knockdown of Ago2 did not enhance virus replication . Enhanced ZIKV replication was observed in a Dcr2-knockout cell line suggesting that the exo-siRNA pathway is implicated in the antiviral response . Although ZIKV-specific piRNA-sized small RNAs were detected , these lacked the characteristic piRNA ping-pong signature motif and were bound to Ago3 but not Piwi5 or Piwi6 . Silencing o
There have been several recent changes in the taxonomy of Sporothrix schenckii as well as new observations regarding the clinical aspects of sporotrichosis . In this study , we determined the identification of the Sporothrix species associated with both classic and unusual clinical aspects of sporotrichosis observed in the endemic area of sporotrichosis in Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . To verify whether S . brasiliensis is associated with clinical manifestations of sporotrichosis , a cross-sectional study was performed in which Sporothrix isolates from 50 patients with different clinical manifestations were analyzed and their isolates were studied by phenotypic and genotypic methods . Data from these patients revealed a distinct clinical picture and therapeutic response in infections caused by Sporothrix brasiliensis ( n = 45 ) compared to patients with S . schenckii sensu stricto ( n = 5 ) . S . brasiliensis was associated with disseminated cutaneous infection without underlying disease ,
A series of reports over the last few years have indicated that a much larger portion of the mammalian genome is transcribed than can be accounted for by currently annotated genes , but the quantity and nature of these additional transcripts remains unclear . Here , we have used data from single- and paired-end RNA-Seq and tiling arrays to assess the quantity and composition of transcripts in PolyA+ RNA from human and mouse tissues . Relative to tiling arrays , RNA-Seq identifies many fewer transcribed regions ( “seqfrags” ) outside known exons and ncRNAs . Most nonexonic seqfrags are in introns , raising the possibility that they are fragments of pre-mRNAs . The chromosomal locations of the majority of intergenic seqfrags in RNA-Seq data are near known genes , consistent with alternative cleavage and polyadenylation site usage , promoter- and terminator-associated transcripts , or new alternative exons; indeed , reads that bridge splice sites identified 4 , 544 new exons , affecting 3
The ability to design thermostable proteins offers enormous potential for the development of novel protein bioreagents . In this work , a combined computational and experimental method was developed to increase the Tm of the flavin mononucleotide based fluorescent protein Bacillus Subtilis YtvA LOV domain by 31 Celsius , thus extending its applicability in thermophilic systems . Briefly , the method includes five steps , the single mutant computer screening to identify thermostable mutant candidates , the experimental evaluation to confirm the positive selections , the computational redesign around the thermostable mutation regions , the experimental reevaluation and finally the multiple mutations combination . The adopted method is simple and effective , can be applied to other important proteins where other methods have difficulties , and therefore provides a new tool to improve protein thermostability . 
Sand flies ( Diptera , Psychodidae , Phlebotominae ) in the genus Lutzomyia are the predominant vectors of the protozoan disease leishmaniasis in the New World . Within the watershed of the Panama Canal , the cutaneous form of leishmaniasis is a continuous health threat for residents , tourists and members of an international research community . Here we report the results of screening a tropical forest assemblage of sand fly species for infection by both Leishmania and a microbe that can potentially serve in vector population control , the cytoplasmically transmitted rickettsia , Wolbachia pipientis . Knowing accurately which Lutzomyia species are present , what their evolutionary relationships are , and how they are infected by strains of both Leishmania and Wolbachia is of critical value for building strategies to mitigate the impact of this disease in humans . We collected , sorted and then used DNA sequences to determine the diversity and probable phylogenetic relationships of the
The devastating clinical consequences associated with human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) infection and reactivation underscores the importance of understanding triggers of HCMV reactivation in dendritic cells ( DC ) . Here we show that ERK-mediated reactivation is dependent on the mitogen and stress activated kinase ( MSK ) family . Furthermore , this MSK mediated response is dependent on CREB binding to the viral major immediate early promoter ( MIEP ) . Specifically , CREB binding to the MIEP provides the target for MSK recruitment . Importantly , MSK mediated phosphorylation of histone H3 is required to promote histone de-methylation and the subsequent exit of HCMV from latency . Taken together , these data suggest that CREB binding to the MIEP is necessary for the recruitment of the kinase activity of MSKs to initiate the chromatin remodelling at the MIEP required for reactivation . Thus the importance of CREB during HCMV reactivation is to promote chromatin modifications conducive for
The production of ribosomes is ubiquitous and fundamental to life . As such , it is surprising that defects in ribosome biogenesis underlie a growing number of symptomatically distinct inherited disorders , collectively called ribosomopathies . We previously determined that the nucleolar protein , NOL11 , is essential for optimal pre-rRNA transcription and processing in human tissue culture cells . However , the role of NOL11 in the development of a multicellular organism remains unknown . Here , we reveal a critical function for NOL11 in vertebrate ribosome biogenesis and craniofacial development . Nol11 is strongly expressed in the developing cranial neural crest ( CNC ) of both amphibians and mammals , and knockdown of Xenopus nol11 results in impaired pre-rRNA transcription and processing , increased apoptosis , and abnormal development of the craniofacial cartilages . Inhibition of p53 rescues this skeletal phenotype , but not the underlying ribosome biogenesis defect , demonstrat
Leptospirosis is a widespread zoonotic disease worldwide . The lack of an adequate laboratory test is a major barrier for diagnosis , especially during the early stages of illness , when antibiotic therapy is most effective . Therefore , there is a critical need for an efficient diagnostic test for this life threatening disease . In order to identify new targets that could be used as diagnostic makers for leptopirosis , we constructed a protein microarray chip comprising 61% of Leptospira interrogans proteome and investigated the IgG response from 274 individuals , including 80 acute-phase , 80 convalescent-phase patients and 114 healthy control subjects from regions with endemic , high endemic , and no endemic transmission of leptospirosis . A nitrocellulose line blot assay was performed to validate the accuracy of the protein microarray results . We found 16 antigens that can discriminate between acute cases and healthy individuals from a region with high endemic transmission of lept
Mosquito immunity studies have focused mainly on characterizing immune effector mechanisms elicited against parasites , bacteria and more recently , viruses . However , those elicited against entomopathogenic fungi remain poorly understood , despite the ubiquitous nature of these microorganisms and their unique invasion route that bypasses the midgut epithelium , an important immune tissue and physical barrier . Here , we used the malaria vector Anopheles gambiae as a model to investigate the role of melanization , a potent immune effector mechanism of arthropods , in mosquito defense against the entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana , using in vivo functional genetic analysis and confocal microscopy . The temporal monitoring of fungal growth in mosquitoes injected with B . bassiana conidia showed that melanin eventually formed on all stages , including conidia , germ tubes and hyphae , except the single cell hyphal bodies . Nevertheless , melanin rarely aborted the growth of any 
Dengue virus host factors ( DENV HFs ) that are essential for the completion of the infection cycle in the mosquito vector and vertebrate host represent potent targets for transmission blocking . Here we investigated whether known mammalian DENV HF inhibitors could influence virus infection in the arthropod vector A . aegypti . We evaluated the potency of bafilomycin ( BAF; inhibitor of vacuolar H+-ATPase ( vATPase ) ) , mycophenolic acid ( MPA; inhibitor of inosine-5′-monophosphate dehydrogenase ( IMPDH ) ) , castanospermine ( CAS; inhibitor of glucosidase ) , and deoxynojirimycin ( DNJ; inhibitor of glucosidase ) in blocking DENV infection of the mosquito midgut , using various treatment methods that included direct injection , ingestion by sugar feeding or blood feeding , and silencing of target genes by RNA interference ( RNAi ) . Injection of BAF ( 5 µM ) and MPA ( 25 µM ) prior to feeding on virus-infected blood inhibited DENV titers in the midgut at 7 days post-infection by 56% 
Cell volume changes are ubiquitous in normal and pathological activity of the brain . Nevertheless , we know little of how cell volume affects neuronal dynamics . We here performed the first detailed study of the effects of cell volume on neuronal dynamics . By incorporating cell swelling together with dynamic ion concentrations and oxygen supply into Hodgkin-Huxley type spiking dynamics , we demonstrate the spontaneous transition between epileptic seizure and spreading depression states as the cell swells and contracts in response to changes in osmotic pressure . Our use of volume as an order parameter further revealed a dynamical definition for the experimentally described physiological ceiling that separates seizure from spreading depression , as well as predicted a second ceiling that demarcates spreading depression from anoxic depolarization . Our model highlights the neuroprotective role of glial K buffering against seizures and spreading depression , and provides novel insights 
Paracoccidioides brasiliensis is the etiologic agent of paracoccidioidomycosis ( PCM ) , the most prevalent systemic mycosis that is geographically confined to Latin America . The pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1β that is mainly derived from the activation of the cytoplasmic multiprotein complex inflammasome is an essential host factor against opportunistic fungal infections; however , its role in infection with a primary fungal pathogen , such as P . brasiliensis , is not well understood . In this study , we found that murine bone marrow-derived dendritic cells responded to P . brasiliensis yeast cells infection by releasing IL-1β in a spleen tyrosine kinase ( Syk ) , caspase-1 and NOD-like receptor ( NLR ) family member NLRP3 dependent manner . In addition , P . brasiliensis-induced NLRP3 inflammasome activation was dependent on potassium ( K+ ) efflux , reactive oxygen species production , phagolysosomal acidification and cathepsin B release . Finally , using mice lacking the IL-1 rec
Toxoplasma gondii , a common brain-tropic parasite , is capable of infecting most nucleated cells , including astrocytes and neurons , in vitro . Yet , in vivo , Toxoplasma is primarily found in neurons . In vitro data showing that interferon-γ-stimulated astrocytes , but not neurons , clear intracellular parasites suggest that neurons alone are persistently infected in vivo because they lack the ability to clear intracellular parasites . Here we test this theory by using a novel Toxoplasma-mouse model capable of marking and tracking host cells that directly interact with parasites , even if the interaction is transient . Remarkably , we find that Toxoplasma shows a strong predilection for interacting with neurons throughout CNS infection . This predilection remains in the setting of IFN-γ depletion; infection with parasites resistant to the major mechanism by which murine astrocytes clear parasites; or when directly injecting parasites into the brain . These findings , in combination 
To understand shapes and movements of cells undergoing lamellipodial motility , we systematically explore minimal free-boundary models of actin-myosin contractility consisting of the force-balance and myosin transport equations . The models account for isotropic contraction proportional to myosin density , viscous stresses in the actin network , and constant-strength viscous-like adhesion . The contraction generates a spatially graded centripetal actin flow , which in turn reinforces the contraction via myosin redistribution and causes retraction of the lamellipodial boundary . Actin protrusion at the boundary counters the retraction , and the balance of the protrusion and retraction shapes the lamellipodium . The model analysis shows that initiation of motility critically depends on three dimensionless parameter combinations , which represent myosin-dependent contractility , a characteristic viscosity-adhesion length , and a rate of actin protrusion . When the contractility is suffici
Understanding complex networks of protein-protein interactions ( PPIs ) is one of the foremost challenges of the post-genomic era . Due to the recent advances in experimental bio-technology , including yeast-2-hybrid ( Y2H ) , tandem affinity purification ( TAP ) and other high-throughput methods for protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) detection , huge amounts of PPI network data are becoming available . Of major concern , however , are the levels of noise and incompleteness . For example , for Y2H screens , it is thought that the false positive rate could be as high as 64% , and the false negative rate may range from 43% to 71% . TAP experiments are believed to have comparable levels of noise . We present a novel technique to assess the confidence levels of interactions in PPI networks obtained from experimental studies . We use it for predicting new interactions and thus for guiding future biological experiments . This technique is the first to utilize currently the best fitting netw
More than 20 human neurological and neurodegenerative diseases are caused by simple DNA repeat expansions; among these , non-coding CTG repeat expansions are the basis of myotonic dystrophy ( DM1 ) . Recent work , however , has also revealed that many human genes have anti-sense transcripts , raising the possibility that human trinucleotide expansion diseases may be comprised of pathogenic activities due both to a sense expanded-repeat transcript and to an anti-sense expanded-repeat transcript . We established a Drosophila model for DM1 and tested the role of interactions between expanded CTG transcripts and expanded CAG repeat transcripts . These studies revealed dramatically enhanced toxicity in flies co-expressing CTG with CAG expanded repeats . Expression of the two transcripts led to novel pathogenesis with the generation of dcr-2 and ago2-dependent 21-nt triplet repeat-derived siRNAs . These small RNAs targeted the expression of CAG-containing genes , such as Ataxin-2 and TATA bi
Soft rot disease is economically one of the most devastating bacterial diseases affecting plants worldwide . In this study , we present novel insights into the phylogeny and virulence of the soft rot model Pectobacterium sp . SCC3193 , which was isolated from a diseased potato stem in Finland in the early 1980s . Genomic approaches , including proteome and genome comparisons of all sequenced soft rot bacteria , revealed that SCC3193 , previously included in the species Pectobacterium carotovorum , can now be more accurately classified as Pectobacterium wasabiae . Together with the recently revised phylogeny of a few P . carotovorum strains and an increasing number of studies on P . wasabiae , our work indicates that P . wasabiae has been unnoticed but present in potato fields worldwide . A combination of genomic approaches and in planta experiments identified features that separate SCC3193 and other P . wasabiae strains from the rest of soft rot bacteria , such as the absence of a type
The mitochondrial protein repertoire varies depending on the cellular state . Protein component modifications caused by mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) depletion are related to a wide range of human diseases; however , little is known about how nuclear-encoded mitochondrial proteins ( mt proteome ) changes under such dysfunctional states . In this study , we investigated the systemic alterations of mtDNA-depleted ( ρ0 ) mitochondria by using network analysis of gene expression data . By modularizing the quantified proteomics data into protein functional networks , systemic properties of mitochondrial dysfunction were analyzed . We discovered that up-regulated and down-regulated proteins were organized into two predominant subnetworks that exhibited distinct biological processes . The down-regulated network modules are involved in typical mitochondrial functions , while up-regulated proteins are responsible for mtDNA repair and regulation of mt protein expression and transport . Furthermore
The molecular machinery of life relies on complex multistep processes that involve numerous individual transitions , such as molecular association and dissociation steps , chemical reactions , and mechanical movements . The corresponding transition rates can be typically measured in vitro but not in vivo . Here , we develop a general method to deduce the in-vivo rates from their in-vitro values . The method has two basic components . First , we introduce the kinetic distance , a new concept by which we can quantitatively compare the kinetics of a multistep process in different environments . The kinetic distance depends logarithmically on the transition rates and can be interpreted in terms of the underlying free energy barriers . Second , we minimize the kinetic distance between the in-vitro and the in-vivo process , imposing the constraint that the deduced rates reproduce a known global property such as the overall in-vivo speed . In order to demonstrate the predictive power of our m
Our understanding of basic evolutionary processes in bacteria is still very limited . For example , multiple recent dating estimates are based on a universal inter-species molecular clock rate , but that rate was calibrated using estimates of geological dates that are no longer accepted . We therefore estimated the short-term rates of mutation and recombination in Helicobacter pylori by sequencing an average of 39 , 300 bp in 78 gene fragments from 97 isolates . These isolates included 34 pairs of sequential samples , which were sampled at intervals of 0 . 25 to 10 . 2 years . They also included single isolates from 29 individuals ( average age: 45 years ) from 10 families . The accumulation of sequence diversity increased with time of separation in a clock-like manner in the sequential isolates . We used Approximate Bayesian Computation to estimate the rates of mutation , recombination , mean length of recombination tracts , and average diversity in those tracts . The estimates indica
Photoreception in the mammalian retina is not restricted to rods and cones but extends to a subset of retinal ganglion cells expressing the photopigment melanopsin ( mRGCs ) . These mRGCs are known to drive such reflex light responses as circadian photoentrainment and pupillomotor movements . By contrast , until now there has been no direct assessment of their contribution to conventional visual pathways . Here , we address this deficit . Using new reporter lines , we show that mRGC projections are much more extensive than previously thought and extend across the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus ( dLGN ) , origin of thalamo-cortical projection neurons . We continue to show that this input supports extensive physiological light responses in the dLGN and visual cortex in mice lacking rods+cones ( a model of advanced retinal degeneration ) . Moreover , using chromatic stimuli to isolate melanopsin-derived responses in mice with an intact visual system , we reveal strong melanopsin input 
HIV-1 infection is associated with an early and profound depletion of mucosal memory CD4+ T cells , a population that plays an indispensable role in the regulation of isotype switching and transepithelial transport of antibodies . In this study , we addressed whether the depletion of CD4+ T cell in HIV-1-infected individuals results in altered humoral responses specific to antigens encountered at mucosal surfaces . Comprehensive protein microarray of systemic humoral responses to intestinal microbiota demonstrated reduced IgG responses to antigens derived from Proteobacteria and Firmicutes but not Bacteroidetes . Importantly , intestinal secretions of antiretroviral therapy-treated HIV-1-infected individuals exhibited a significant elevation of IgM levels and decreased IgA/IgM and IgG/IgM ratios of antibodies specific to a variety of microbial and food antigens . The presented findings indicate reduced competence of mucosal B cells for class switch recombination from IgM to other isoty
Populations of species in ecosystems are often constrained by availability of resources within their environment . In effect this means that a growth of one population , needs to be balanced by comparable reduction in populations of others . In neutral models of biodiversity all populations are assumed to change incrementally due to stochastic births and deaths of individuals . Here we propose and model another redistribution mechanism driven by abrupt and severe reduction in size of the population of a single species freeing up resources for the remaining ones . This mechanism may be relevant e . g . for communities of bacteria , with strain-specific collapses caused e . g . by invading bacteriophages , or for other ecosystems where infectious diseases play an important role . The emergent dynamics of our system is characterized by cyclic ‘‘diversity waves’’ triggered by collapses of globally dominating populations . The population diversity peaks at the beginning of each wave and exp
Chemotactic movement of Escherichia coli is one of the most thoroughly studied paradigms of simple behavior . Due to significant competitive advantage conferred by chemotaxis and to high evolution rates in bacteria , the chemotaxis system is expected to be strongly optimized . Bacteria follow gradients by performing temporal comparisons of chemoeffector concentrations along their runs , a strategy which is most efficient given their size and swimming speed . Concentration differences are detected by a sensory system and transmitted to modulate rotation of flagellar motors , decreasing the probability of a tumble and reorientation if the perceived concentration change during a run is positive . Such regulation of tumble probability is of itself sufficient to explain chemotactic drift of a population up the gradient , and is commonly assumed to be the only navigation mechanism of chemotactic E . coli . Here we use computer simulations to predict existence of an additional mechanism of gr
Medullary thymic epithelial cells ( mTECs ) are essential for establishing central tolerance by expressing a diverse array of self-peptides that delete autoreactive thymocytes and/or divert thymocytes into the regulatory T cell lineage . Activation of the NFκB signaling pathway in mTEC precursors is indispensable for mTEC maturation and proliferation resulting in proper medullary region formation . Here we show that the Stat3-mediated signaling pathway also plays a key role in mTEC development and homeostasis . Expression of a constitutively active Stat3 transgene targeted to the mTEC compartment increases mTEC cellularity and bypasses the requirement for signals from positively selected thymocytes to drive medullary region formation . Conversely , conditional deletion of Stat3 disrupts medullary region architecture and reduces the number of mTECs . Stat3 signaling does not affect mTEC proliferation , but rather promotes survival of immature MHCIIloCD80lo mTEC precursors . In contrast 
Clostridium difficile is an emergent pathogen , and the most common cause of nosocomial diarrhea . In an effort to understand the role of small noncoding RNAs ( sRNAs ) in C . difficile physiology and pathogenesis , we used an in silico approach to identify 511 sRNA candidates in both intergenic and coding regions . In parallel , RNA–seq and differential 5′-end RNA–seq were used for global identification of C . difficile sRNAs and their transcriptional start sites at three different growth conditions ( exponential growth phase , stationary phase , and starvation ) . This global experimental approach identified 251 putative regulatory sRNAs including 94 potential trans riboregulators located in intergenic regions , 91 cis-antisense RNAs , and 66 riboswitches . Expression of 35 sRNAs was confirmed by gene-specific experimental approaches . Some sRNAs , including an antisense RNA that may be involved in control of C . difficile autolytic activity , showed growth phase-dependent expression
The liver-specific microRNA miR-122 , which has essential roles in liver development and metabolism , is a key proviral factor for hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) . Despite its crucial role in the liver and HCV life cycle , little is known about the molecular mechanism of miR-122 expression regulation by HCV infection . Here , we show that the HCV core protein downregulates the abundance of miR-122 by promoting its destabilization via the inhibition of GLD-2 , a non-canonical cytoplasmic poly ( A ) polymerase . The decrease in miR-122 expression resulted in the dysregulation of the known functions of miR-122 , including its proviral activity for HCV . By high-throughput sequencing of small RNAs from human liver biopsies , we found that the 22-nucleotide ( nt ) prototype miR-122 is modified at its 3′ end by 3′-terminal non-templated and templated nucleotide additions . Remarkably , the proportion of miR-122 isomers bearing a single nucleotide tail of any ribonucleotide decreased in liver spec
Trypanosomes cause disease in humans and livestock throughout sub-Saharan Africa . Although various species show evidence of clinical tolerance to trypanosomes , until now there has been no evidence of acquired immunity to natural infections . We discovered a distinct peak and decrease in age prevalence of T . brucei s . l . infection in wild African lions that is consistent with being driven by an exposure-dependent increase in cross-immunity following infections with the more genetically diverse species , T . congolense sensu latu . The causative agent of human sleeping sickness , T . brucei rhodesiense , disappears by 6 years of age apparently in response to cross-immunity from other trypanosomes , including the non-pathogenic subspecies , T . brucei brucei . These findings may suggest novel pathways for vaccinations against trypanosomiasis despite the notoriously complex antigenic surface proteins in these parasites . 
The role that mechanistic mathematical modeling and systems biology will play in molecular medicine and clinical development remains uncertain . In this study , mathematical modeling and sensitivity analysis were used to explore the working hypothesis that mechanistic models of human cascades , despite model uncertainty , can be computationally screened for points of fragility , and that these sensitive mechanisms could serve as therapeutic targets . We tested our working hypothesis by screening a model of the well-studied coagulation cascade , developed and validated from literature . The predicted sensitive mechanisms were then compared with the treatment literature . The model , composed of 92 proteins and 148 protein–protein interactions , was validated using 21 published datasets generated from two different quiescent in vitro coagulation models . Simulated platelet activation and thrombin generation profiles in the presence and absence of natural anticoagulants were consistent wi
Phage therapy is the use of bacteriophages as antimicrobial agents for the control of pathogenic and other problem bacteria . It has previously been argued that successful application of phage therapy requires a good understanding of the non-linear kinetics of phage–bacteria interactions . Here we combine experimental and modelling approaches to make a detailed examination of such kinetics for the important food-borne pathogen Campylobacter jejuni and a suitable virulent phage in an in vitro system . Phage-insensitive populations of C . jejuni arise readily , and as far as we are aware this is the first phage therapy study to test , against in vitro data , models for phage–bacteria interactions incorporating phage-insensitive or resistant bacteria . We find that even an apparently simplistic model fits the data surprisingly well , and we confirm that the so-called inundation and proliferation thresholds are likely to be of considerable practical importance to phage therapy . We fit the
Schistosomiasis , a devastating disease caused by parasitic flatworms of the genus Schistosoma , affects over 260 million people worldwide especially in tropical and sub-tropical regions . Schistosomes must undergo their larval development within specific species of snail intermediate hosts , a trait that is shared among almost all digenean trematodes . This unique and long-standing host-parasite relationship presents an opportunity to study both the importance of conserved immunological features in novel immunological roles , as well as new immunological adaptations that have arisen to combat a very specific type of immunological challenge . While it is well supported that the snail immune response is important for protecting against schistosome infection , very few specific snail immune factors have been identified and even fewer have been functionally characterized . Here , we provide the first functional report of a snail Toll-like receptor , which we demonstrate as playing an impo
Aedes mosquitoes severely affect the health and wellbeing of human populations by transmitting infectious diseases . In French Polynesia , Aedes aegypti is the main vector of dengue , chikungunya and Zika , and Aedes polynesiensis the primary vector of Bancroftian filariasis and a secondary vector of arboviruses . Tools for assessing the risk of disease transmission or for measuring the efficacy of vector control programmes are scarce . A promising approach to quantify the human-vector contact relies on the detection and the quantification of antibodies directed against mosquito salivary proteins . An ELISA test was developed to detect and quantify the presence of immunoglobulin G ( IgG ) directed against proteins from salivary gland extracts ( SGE ) of Ae . aegypti and Ae . polynesiensis in human populations exposed to either species , through a cross-sectional study . In Tahiti and Moorea islands where Ae . aegypti and Ae . polynesiensis are present , the test revealed that 98% and 6
The success of Mycobacterium tuberculosis as a pathogen derives from its facile adaptation to the intracellular milieu of human macrophages . To explore this process , we asked whether adaptation also required interference with the metabolic machinery of the host cell . Temporal profiling of the metabolic flux , in cells infected with differently virulent mycobacterial strains , confirmed that this was indeed the case . Subsequent analysis identified the core subset of host reactions that were targeted . It also elucidated that the goal of regulation was to integrate pathways facilitating macrophage survival , with those promoting mycobacterial sustenance . Intriguingly , this synthesis then provided an axis where both host- and pathogen-derived factors converged to define determinants of pathogenicity . Consequently , whereas the requirement for macrophage survival sensitized TB susceptibility to the glycemic status of the individual , mediation by pathogen ensured that the virulence 
Crossover recombination and the formation of chiasmata normally ensure the proper segregation of homologous chromosomes during the first meiotic division . zhp-3 , the Caenorhabditis elegans ortholog of the budding yeast ZIP3 gene , is required for crossover recombination . We show that ZHP-3 protein localization is highly dynamic . At a key transition point in meiotic prophase , the protein shifts from along the length of the synaptonemal complex ( SC ) to an asymmetric localization on the SC and eventually becomes restricted to foci that mark crossover recombination events . A zhp-3::gfp transgene partially complements a null mutation and reveals a separation of function; although the fusion protein can promote nearly wild-type levels of recombination , aneuploidy among the progeny is high , indicating defects in meiotic chromosome segregation . The structure of bivalents is perturbed in this mutant , suggesting that the chromosome segregation defect results from an inability to prop
Aedes albopictus is a tropical invasive species which in the last decades spread worldwide , also colonizing temperate regions of Europe and US , where it has become a public health concern due to its ability to transmit exotic arboviruses , as well as severe nuisance problems due to its aggressive daytime outdoor biting behaviour . While several studies have been carried out in order to predict the potential limits of the species expansions based on eco-climatic parameters , few studies have so far focused on the specific effects of these variables in shaping its micro-geographic abundance and dynamics . The present study investigated eco-climatic factors affecting Ae . albopictus abundance and dynamics in metropolitan and sub-urban/rural sites in Rome ( Italy ) , which was colonized in 1997 and is nowadays one of the most infested metropolitan areas in Southern Europe . To this aim , longitudinal adult monitoring was carried out along a 70 km-transect across and beyond the most urban
Phthiocerol dimycocerosates ( DIM ) are major virulence factors of Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) , in particular during the early step of infection when bacilli encounter their host macrophages . However , their cellular and molecular mechanisms of action remain unknown . Using Mtb mutants deleted for genes involved in DIM biosynthesis , we demonstrated that DIM participate both in the receptor-dependent phagocytosis of Mtb and the prevention of phagosomal acidification . The effects of DIM required a state of the membrane fluidity as demonstrated by experiments conducted with cholesterol-depleting drugs that abolished the differences in phagocytosis efficiency and phagosome acidification observed between wild-type and mutant strains . The insertion of a new cholesterol-pyrene probe in living cells demonstrated that the polarity of the membrane hydrophobic core changed upon contact with Mtb whereas the lateral diffusion of cholesterol was unaffected . This effect was dependent on 
Mean-field approximations are a powerful tool for studying large neural networks . However , they do not describe well the behavior of networks composed of a small number of neurons . In this case , major differences between the mean-field approximation and the real behavior of the network can arise . Yet , many interesting problems in neuroscience involve the study of mesoscopic networks composed of a few tens of neurons . Nonetheless , mathematical methods that correctly describe networks of small size are still rare , and this prevents us to make progress in understanding neural dynamics at these intermediate scales . Here we develop a novel systematic analysis of the dynamics of arbitrarily small networks composed of homogeneous populations of excitatory and inhibitory firing-rate neurons . We study the local bifurcations of their neural activity with an approach that is largely analytically tractable , and we numerically determine the global bifurcations . We find that for strong 
The clinical and epidemiological significance of Leishmania DNA in extralesional sites is obscured by uncertainty of whether the DNA derives from viable parasites . To examine dissemination of Leishmania during active disease and the potential participation of human infection in transmission , Leishmania 7SLRNA was exploited to establish viability and estimate parasite burden in extralesional sites of dermal leishmaniasis patients . The feasibility of discriminating parasite viability by PCR of Leishmania 7SLRNA was evaluated in relation with luciferase activity of luc transfected intracellular amastigotes in dose-response assays of Glucantime cytotoxicity . Monocytes , tonsil swabs , aspirates of normal skin and lesions of 28 cutaneous and 2 mucocutaneous leishmaniasis patients were screened by kDNA amplification/Southern blot . Positive samples were analyzed by quantitative PCR of Leishmania 7SLRNA genes and transcripts . 7SLRNA amplification coincided with luciferase activity , conf
In metazoans , each cell type follows a characteristic , spatio-temporally regulated DNA replication program . Histone modifications ( HMs ) and chromatin binding proteins ( CBPs ) are fundamental for a faithful progression and completion of this process . However , no individual HM is strictly indispensable for origin function , suggesting that HMs may act combinatorially in analogy to the histone code hypothesis for transcriptional regulation . In contrast to gene expression however , the relationship between combinations of chromatin features and DNA replication timing has not yet been demonstrated . Here , by exploiting a comprehensive data collection consisting of 95 CBPs and HMs we investigated their combinatorial potential for the prediction of DNA replication timing in Drosophila using quantitative statistical models . We found that while combinations of CBPs exhibit moderate predictive power for replication timing , pairwise interactions between HMs lead to accurate prediction
Dengue virus and its four serotypes ( DENV-1 to DENV-4 ) infect 390 million people and are implicated in at least 25 , 000 deaths annually , with the largest disease burden in tropical and subtropical regions . We investigated the spatial dynamics of DENV-1 , DENV-2 and DENV-3 in Brazil by applying a statistical framework to complete genome sequences . For all three serotypes , we estimated that the introduction of new lineages occurred within 7 to 10-year intervals . New lineages were most likely to be imported from the Caribbean region to the North and Northeast regions of Brazil , and then to disperse at a rate of approximately 0 . 5 km/day . Joint statistical analysis of evolutionary , epidemiological and ecological data indicates that aerial transportation of humans and/or vector mosquitoes , rather than Aedes aegypti infestation rates or geographical distances , determine dengue virus spread in Brazil . 
Understanding how neural populations encode sensory information thereby leading to perception and behavior ( i . e . , the neural code ) remains an important problem in neuroscience . When investigating the neural code , one must take into account the fact that neural activities are not independent but are actually correlated with one another . Such correlations are seen ubiquitously and have a strong impact on neural coding . Here we investigated how differences in the antagonistic center-surround receptive field ( RF ) organization across three parallel sensory maps influence correlations between the activities of electrosensory pyramidal neurons . Using a model based on known anatomical differences in receptive field center size and overlap , we initially predicted large differences in correlated activity across the maps . However , in vivo electrophysiological recordings showed that , contrary to modeling predictions , electrosensory pyramidal neurons across all three segments disp
Over repeat presentations of the same stimulus , sensory neurons show variable responses . This “noise” is typically correlated between pairs of cells , and a question with rich history in neuroscience is how these noise correlations impact the population's ability to encode the stimulus . Here , we consider a very general setting for population coding , investigating how information varies as a function of noise correlations , with all other aspects of the problem – neural tuning curves , etc . – held fixed . This work yields unifying insights into the role of noise correlations . These are summarized in the form of theorems , and illustrated with numerical examples involving neurons with diverse tuning curves . Our main contributions are as follows . ( 1 ) We generalize previous results to prove a sign rule ( SR ) — if noise correlations between pairs of neurons have opposite signs vs . their signal correlations , then coding performance will improve compared to the independent case 
Chronic coinfections of Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa frequently fail to respond to antibiotic treatment , leading to significant patient morbidity and mortality . Currently , the impact of interspecies interaction on S . aureus antibiotic susceptibility remains poorly understood . In this study , we utilize a panel of P . aeruginosa burn wound and cystic fibrosis ( CF ) lung isolates to demonstrate that P . aeruginosa alters S . aureus susceptibility to bactericidal antibiotics in a variable , strain-dependent manner and further identify 3 independent interactions responsible for antagonizing or potentiating antibiotic activity against S . aureus . We find that P . aeruginosa LasA endopeptidase potentiates lysis of S . aureus by vancomycin , rhamnolipids facilitate proton-motive force-independent tobramycin uptake , and 2-heptyl-4-hydroxyquinoline N-oxide ( HQNO ) induces multidrug tolerance in S . aureus through respiratory inhibition and reduction of cellular ATP 
Thrombocytopenia and platelet dysfunction are commonly observed in patients with dengue virus ( DENV ) infection and may contribute to complications such as bleeding and plasma leakage . The etiology of dengue-associated thrombocytopenia is multifactorial and includes increased platelet clearance . The binding of the coagulation protein von Willebrand factor ( VWF ) to the platelet membrane and removal of sialic acid ( desialylation ) are two well-known mechanisms of platelet clearance , but whether these conditions also contribute to thrombocytopenia in dengue infection is unknown . In two observational cohort studies in Bandung and Jepara , Indonesia , we show that adult patients with dengue not only had higher plasma concentrations of plasma VWF antigen and active VWF , but that circulating platelets had also bound more VWF to their membrane . The amount of platelet-VWF binding correlated well with platelet count . Furthermore , sialic acid levels in dengue patients were significant
A “bidirectional gene pair” comprises two adjacent genes whose transcription start sites are neighboring and directed away from each other . The intervening regulatory region is called a “bidirectional promoter . ” These promoters are often associated with genes that function in DNA repair , with the potential to participate in the development of cancer . No connection between these gene pairs and cancer has been previously investigated . Using the database of spliced-expressed sequence tags ( ESTs ) , we identified the most complete collection of human transcripts under the control of bidirectional promoters . A rigorous screen of the spliced EST data identified new bidirectional promoters , many of which functioned as alternative promoters or regulated novel transcripts . Additionally , we show a highly significant enrichment of bidirectional promoters in genes implicated in somatic cancer , including a substantial number of genes implicated in breast and ovarian cancers . The repeat
Many species groups , including mammals and many insects , determine sex using heteromorphic sex chromosomes . Diptera flies , which include the model Drosophila melanogaster , generally have XY sex chromosomes and a conserved karyotype consisting of six chromosomal arms ( five large rods and a small dot ) , but superficially similar karyotypes may conceal the true extent of sex chromosome variation . Here , we use whole-genome analysis in 37 fly species belonging to 22 different families of Diptera and uncover tremendous hidden diversity in sex chromosome karyotypes among flies . We identify over a dozen different sex chromosome configurations , and the small dot chromosome is repeatedly used as the sex chromosome , which presumably reflects the ancestral karyotype of higher Diptera . However , we identify species with undifferentiated sex chromosomes , others in which a different chromosome replaced the dot as a sex chromosome or in which up to three chromosomal elements became incor
Zika virus ( ZIKV ) is an emerging mosquito-borne pathogen . ZIKV infection is linked to the development of severe fetal abnormalities that include spontaneous abortion , stillbirth , hydranencephaly , and microcephaly . ZIKV outbreaks have been recorded in the United States . We recently demonstrated the first congenital ZIKV infection in the United States . In this study , we investigated archived blood samples from six mothers who gave birth to babies with microcephaly and 12 mothers who gave birth to healthy babies in Hawaii between 2009 and 2012 . We tested maternal blood for the presence of ZIKV IgM and IgG antibodies using commercially available human ZIKV IgM and IgG ELISA kits . Blood from one mother who delivered babies with microcephaly tested positive for ZIKV IgM antibody ( 16 . 6% ) and blood from three mothers tested positive for ZIKV IgG antibody ( 50% ) . ZIKV showed a trend toward significance with microcephaly . ZIKV IgG antibody positive mothers were more likely to 
Although several studies have associated Mycobacterium ulcerans ( MU ) infection , Buruli ulcer ( BU ) , with slow moving water bodies , there is still no definite mode of transmission . Ecological and transmission studies suggest Variable Number Tandem Repeat ( VNTR ) typing as a useful tool to differentiate MU strains from other Mycolactone Producing Mycobacteria ( MPM ) . Deciphering the genetic relatedness of clinical and environmental isolates is seminal to determining reservoirs , vectors and transmission routes . In this study , we attempted to source-track MU infections to specific water bodies by matching VNTR profiles of MU in human samples to those in the environment . Environmental samples were collected from 10 water bodies in four BU endemic communities in the Ashanti region , Ghana . Four VNTR loci in MU Agy99 genome , were used to genotype environmental MU ecovars , and those from 14 confirmed BU patients within the same study area . Length polymorphism was confirmed wi
Alien species are a major component of human-induced environmental change . Variation in the numbers of alien species found in different areas is likely to depend on a combination of anthropogenic and environmental factors , with anthropogenic factors affecting the number of species introduced to new locations , and when , and environmental factors influencing how many species are able to persist there . However , global spatial and temporal variation in the drivers of alien introduction and species richness remain poorly understood . Here , we analyse an extensive new database of alien birds to explore what determines the global distribution of alien species richness for an entire taxonomic class . We demonstrate that the locations of origin and introduction of alien birds , and their identities , were initially driven largely by European ( mainly British ) colonialism . However , recent introductions are a wider phenomenon , involving more species and countries , and driven in part b
Upstream Binding Factor ( UBF ) is a unique multi-HMGB-box protein first identified as a co-factor in RNA polymerase I ( RPI/PolI ) transcription . However , its poor DNA sequence selectivity and its ability to generate nucleosome-like nucleoprotein complexes suggest a more generalized role in chromatin structure . We previously showed that extensive depletion of UBF reduced the number of actively transcribed ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) genes , but had little effect on rRNA synthesis rates or cell proliferation , leaving open the question of its requirement for RPI transcription . Using gene deletion in mouse , we now show that UBF is essential for embryo development beyond morula . Conditional deletion in cell cultures reveals that UBF is also essential for transcription of the rRNA genes and that it defines the active chromatin conformation of both gene and enhancer sequences . Loss of UBF prevents formation of the SL1/TIF1B pre-initiation complex and recruitment of the RPI-Rrn3/TIF1A com
Signal transduction activated by Wingless/Wnt ligands directs cell proliferation and fate specification in metazoans , and its overactivation underlies the development of the vast majority of colorectal cancers . In the conventional model , the secretion and movement of Wingless to cells distant from its source of synthesis are essential for long-range signaling in tissue patterning . However , this model was upended recently by an unanticipated finding: replacement of wild-type Drosophila Wingless with a membrane-tethered form produced viable adults with largely normal external morphology , which suggested that Wingless secretion and movement are dispensable for tissue patterning . Herein , we tested this foundational principle in the adult intestine , where Wingless signaling gradients coincide with all major boundaries between compartments . We find that the critical roles of Wingless during adult intestinal development , which include regulation of target gene activation , boundary
Recruitment of the serine protease plasmin is central to the pathogenesis of many bacterial species , including Group A streptococcus ( GAS ) , a leading cause of morbidity and mortality globally . A key process in invasive GAS disease is the ability to accumulate plasmin at the cell surface , however the role of host activators of plasminogen in this process is poorly understood . Here , we demonstrate for the first time that the urokinase-type plasminogen activator ( uPA ) contributes to plasmin recruitment and subsequent invasive disease initiation in vivo . In the absence of a source of host plasminogen activators , streptokinase ( Ska ) was required to facilitate cell surface plasmin acquisition by GAS . However , in the absence of Ska , host activators were sufficient to promote cell surface plasmin acquisition by GAS strain 5448 during incubation with plasminogen or human plasma . Furthermore , GAS were able mediate a significant increase in the activation of zymogen pro-uPA in 
Colonization of the human stomach by Helicobacter pylori is an important risk factor for development of gastric cancer . The H . pylori cag pathogenicity island ( cag PAI ) encodes components of a type IV secretion system ( T4SS ) that translocates the bacterial oncoprotein CagA into gastric epithelial cells , and CagL is a specialized component of the cag T4SS that binds the host receptor α5β1 integrin . Here , we utilized a mass spectrometry-based approach to reveal co-purification of CagL , CagI ( another integrin-binding protein ) , and CagH ( a protein with weak sequence similarity to CagL ) . These three proteins are encoded by contiguous genes in the cag PAI , and are detectable on the bacterial surface . All three proteins are required for CagA translocation into host cells and H . pylori-induced IL-8 secretion by gastric epithelial cells; however , these proteins are not homologous to components of T4SSs in other bacterial species . Scanning electron microscopy analysis reveal
Bovine tuberculosis ( bTB ) is a chronic disease of cattle caused by Mycobacterium bovis , a member of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex group of bacteria . Vaccination of cattle might offer a long-term solution for controlling the disease and priority has been given to the development of a cattle vaccine against bTB . Identification of biomarkers in tuberculosis research remains elusive and the goal is to identify host correlates of protection . We hypothesized that by studying global gene expression we could identify in vitro predictors of protection that could help to facilitate vaccine development . Calves were vaccinated with BCG or with a heterologous BCG prime adenovirally vectored subunit boosting protocol . Protective efficacy was determined after M . bovis challenge . RNA was prepared from PPD-stimulated PBMC prepared from vaccinated-protected , vaccinated-unprotected and unvaccinated control cattle prior to M . bovis challenge and global gene expression determined by RN
Non-centrosomal microtubule organizing centers ( ncMTOCs ) are found in most differentiated cells , but how these structures regulate microtubule organization and dynamics is largely unknown . We optimized a tissue-specific degradation system to test the role of the essential centrosomal microtubule nucleators γ-tubulin ring complex ( γ-TuRC ) and AIR-1/Aurora A at the apical ncMTOC , where they both localize in Caenorhabditis elegans embryonic intestinal epithelial cells . As at the centrosome , the core γ-TuRC component GIP-1/GCP3 is required to recruit other γ-TuRC components to the apical ncMTOC , including MZT-1/MZT1 , characterized here for the first time in animal development . In contrast , AIR-1 and MZT-1 were specifically required to recruit γ-TuRC to the centrosome , but not to centrioles or to the apical ncMTOC . Surprisingly , microtubules remain robustly organized at the apical ncMTOC upon γ-TuRC and AIR-1 co-depletion , and upon depletion of other known microtubule regul
Humans are a diploid species that inherit one set of chromosomes paternally and one homologous set of chromosomes maternally . Unfortunately , most human sequencing initiatives ignore this fact in that they do not directly delineate the nucleotide content of the maternal and paternal copies of the 23 chromosomes individuals possess ( i . e . , they do not ‘phase’ the genome ) often because of the costs and complexities of doing so . We compared 11 different widely-used approaches to phasing human genomes using the publicly available ‘Genome-In-A-Bottle’ ( GIAB ) phased version of the NA12878 genome as a gold standard . The phasing strategies we compared included laboratory-based assays that prepare DNA in unique ways to facilitate phasing as well as purely computational approaches that seek to reconstruct phase information from general sequencing reads and constructs or population-level haplotype frequency information obtained through a reference panel of haplotypes . To assess the per
Type-III protein secretion systems are utilized by gram-negative pathogens to secrete building blocks of the bacterial flagellum , virulence effectors from the cytoplasm into host cells , and structural subunits of the needle complex . The flagellar type-III secretion apparatus utilizes both the energy of the proton motive force and ATP hydrolysis to energize substrate unfolding and translocation . We report formation of functional flagella in the absence of type-III ATPase activity by mutations that increased the proton motive force and flagellar substrate levels . We additionally show that increased proton motive force bypassed the requirement of the Salmonella pathogenicity island 1 virulence-associated type-III ATPase for secretion . Our data support a role for type-III ATPases in enhancing secretion efficiency under limited secretion substrate concentrations and reveal the dispensability of ATPase activity in the type-III protein export process . 
Bistability plays a central role in the gene regulatory networks ( GRNs ) controlling many essential biological functions , including cellular differentiation and cell cycle control . However , establishing the network topologies that can exhibit bistability remains a challenge , in part due to the exceedingly large variety of GRNs that exist for even a small number of components . We begin to address this problem by employing chemical reaction network theory in a comprehensive in silico survey to determine the capacity for bistability of more than 40 , 000 simple networks that can be formed by two transcription factor-coding genes and their associated proteins ( assuming only the most elementary biochemical processes ) . We find that there exist reaction rate constants leading to bistability in ∼90% of these GRN models , including several circuits that do not contain any of the TF cooperativity commonly associated with bistable systems , and the majority of which could only be identif
Orofacial clefting is amongst the most common of birth defects , with both genetic and environmental components . Although numerous studies have been undertaken to investigate the complexities of the genetic etiology of this heterogeneous condition , this factor remains incompletely understood . Here , we describe mutations in the HYAL2 gene as a cause of syndromic orofacial clefting . HYAL2 , encoding hyaluronidase 2 , degrades extracellular hyaluronan , a critical component of the developing heart and palatal shelf matrix . Transfection assays demonstrated that the gene mutations destabilize the molecule , dramatically reducing HYAL2 protein levels . Consistent with the clinical presentation in affected individuals , investigations of Hyal2-/- mice revealed craniofacial abnormalities , including submucosal cleft palate . In addition , cor triatriatum sinister and hearing loss , identified in a proportion of Hyal2-/- mice , were also found as incompletely penetrant features in affecte
Sound detection by inner ear hair cells requires tip links that interconnect mechanosensory stereocilia and convey force to yet unidentified transduction channels . Current models postulate a static composition of the tip link , with protocadherin 15 ( PCDH15 ) at the lower and cadherin 23 ( CDH23 ) at the upper end of the link . In terminally differentiated mammalian auditory hair cells , tip links are subjected to sound-induced forces throughout an organism's life . Although hair cells can regenerate disrupted tip links and restore hearing , the molecular details of this process are unknown . We developed a novel implementation of backscatter electron scanning microscopy to visualize simultaneously immuno-gold particles and stereocilia links , both of only a few nanometers in diameter . We show that functional , mechanotransduction-mediating tip links have at least two molecular compositions , containing either PCDH15/CDH23 or PCDH15/PCDH15 . During regeneration , shorter tip links c
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is the most prevalent arbovirus leading to an estimated 100 million symptomatic dengue infections every year . DENV can cause a spectrum of clinical manifestations , ranging from mild dengue fever ( DF ) to more life threatening forms such as dengue hemorrhagic fever ( DHF ) . The clinical symptoms of DHF become evident typically at the critical phase of infection ( 5–7 days after onset of fever ) , yet the mechanisms that trigger transition from DF to DHF are not well understood . We performed a mass spectrometry-based metabolomic profiling of sera from adult DF and DHF patients at the critical and recovery phases of infection . There were 29 differentially expressed metabolites identified between DF and DHF at the critical phase . These include bile acids , purines , acylcarnitines , phospholipids , and amino acids . Bile acids were observed up to 5 fold higher levels among DHF compared to DF patients and were significantly correlated to the higher levels of asp
The metabolic pathway of purine nucleotides in parasitic protozoa is a potent drug target for treatment of parasitemia . Guanosine 5’-monophosphate reductase ( GMPR ) , which catalyzes the deamination of guanosine 5’-monophosphate ( GMP ) to inosine 5’-monophosphate ( IMP ) , plays an important role in the interconversion of purine nucleotides to maintain the intracellular balance of their concentration . However , only a few studies on protozoan GMPR have been reported at present . Herein , we identified the GMPR in Trypanosoma brucei , a causative protozoan parasite of African trypanosomiasis , and found that the GMPR proteins were consistently localized to glycosomes in T . brucei bloodstream forms . We characterized its recombinant protein to investigate the enzymatic differences between GMPRs of T . brucei and its host animals . T . brucei GMPR was distinct in having an insertion of a tandem repeat of the cystathionine β-synthase ( CBS ) domain , which was absent in mammalian and 
Sodium channel blockers are used to control electrical excitability in cells as a treatment for epileptic seizures and cardiac arrhythmia , and to provide short term control of pain . Development of the next generation of drugs that can selectively target one of the nine types of voltage-gated sodium channel expressed in the body requires a much better understanding of how current channel blockers work . Here we make use of the recently determined crystal structure of the bacterial voltage gated sodium channel NavAb in molecular dynamics simulations to elucidate the position at which the sodium channel blocking drugs benzocaine and phenytoin bind to the protein as well as to understand how these drugs find their way into resting channels . We show that both drugs have two likely binding sites in the pore characterised by nonspecific , hydrophobic interactions: one just above the activation gate , and one at the entrance to the the lateral lipid filled fenestrations . Three independent 
MyD88-mediated signaling downstream of Toll-like receptors and the IL-1 receptor family is critically involved in the induction of protective host responses upon infections . Although it is known that MyD88-deficient mice are highly susceptible to a wide range of bacterial infections , the cell type-specific contribution of MyD88 in protecting the host against intestinal bacterial infection is only poorly understood . In order to investigate the importance of MyD88 in specific immune and nonimmune cell types during intestinal infection , we employed a novel murine knock-in model for MyD88 that enables the cell type-specific reactivation of functional MyD88 expression in otherwise MyD88-deficient mice . We report here that functional MyD88 signaling in CD11c+ cells was sufficient to activate intestinal dendritic cells ( DC ) and to induce the early group 3 innate lymphoid cell ( ILC3 ) response as well as the development of colonic Th17/Th1 cells in response to infection with the intest
Onchocerciasis is targeted for elimination in Africa through annual or biannual ivermectin mass drug administration ( MDA ) . An immunodiagnostic test , based on the detection of human IgG4 antibodies in the blood to the Onchocerca volvulus-specific antigen Ov16 , is one of the recommended tools for determining whether transmission is interrupted and mass treatment can stop . For different transmission settings , the relationship between post-MDA Ov16 antibody prevalence in children ( measured 1 year after the last round of MDA ) and the duration and coverage of MDA , the mf prevalence in the population , and the probability that onchocerciasis is eventually eliminated is explored through mathematical modelling . The ONCHOSIM model was extended with new output on the Ov16 antibody serostatus of individuals . Seroconversion was assumed to be triggered by the first worm establishing in the host , with seroconversion occurring either before maturation , after maturation or only after the 
We have reported that properties of prion strains may change when propagated in different environments . For example , when swainsonine-sensitive 22L prions were propagated in PK1 cells in the presence of swainsonine , drug-resistant variants emerged . We proposed that prions constitute quasi- populations comprising a range of variants with different properties , from which the fittest are selected in a particular environment . Prion populations developed heterogeneity even after biological cloning , indicating that during propagation mutation-like processes occur at the conformational level . Because brain-derived 22L prions are naturally swainsonine resistant , it was not too surprising that prions which had become swa sensitive after propagation in cells could revert to drug resistance . Because RML prions , both after propagation in brain or in PK1 cells , are swainsonine sensitive , we investigated whether it was nonetheless possible to select swainsonine-resistant variants by pro
All biological evolution takes place in a space of possible genotypes and their phenotypes . The structure of this space defines the evolutionary potential and limitations of an evolving system . Metabolism is one of the most ancient and fundamental evolving systems , sustaining life by extracting energy from extracellular nutrients . Here we study metabolism’s potential for innovation by analyzing an exhaustive genotype-phenotype map for a space of 1015 metabolisms that encodes all possible subsets of 51 reactions in central carbon metabolism . Using flux balance analysis , we predict the viability of these metabolisms on 10 different carbon sources which give rise to 1024 potential metabolic phenotypes . Although viable metabolisms with any one phenotype comprise a tiny fraction of genotype space , their absolute numbers exceed 109 for some phenotypes . Metabolisms with any one phenotype typically form a single network of genotypes that extends far or all the way through metabolic ge
The population genetics of Triatoma dimidiata haplogroups was analyzed at landscape and sub-regional scales in Chiapas and regional level across the Mexican Neotropics , and phylogeography of the complex was re-analyzed across its complete geographic range . Two contiguous fragments of the ND4 gene were analyzed due to bias from differential haplogroup specificity using a previously designed sequence . At both landscape ( anthropic modification gradient ) and regional ( demographic , fragmentation , biogeographic , climate ) scales , lowest T . dimidiata genetic diversity occurs where there is greatest historical anthropic modification , and where T . cruzi infection prevalence is significantly highest . Trypanosoma cruzi prevalence was significantly higher than expected in haplogroups 1 and 3 , while lower than expected in haplogroup 2 . There was also a significant difference of DTUI and DTUVI infection frequencies in both haplogroups 1 and 3 , while no difference of either in haplog
Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome ( HFRS ) is a rodent-borne disease caused mainly by two hantaviruses in China: Hantaan virus and Seoul virus . Environmental factors can significantly affect the risk of contracting hantavirus infections , primarily through their effects on rodent population dynamics and human-rodent contact . We aimed to clarify the environmental risk factors favoring rodent-to-human transmission to provide scientific evidence for developing effective HFRS prevention and control strategies . The 10-year ( 2006–2015 ) field surveillance data from the rodent hosts for hantavirus , the epidemiological and environmental data extracted from satellite images and meteorological stations , rodent-to-human transmission rates and impacts of the environment on rodent community composition were used to quantify the relationships among environmental factors , rodent species and HFRS occurrence . The study included 709 cases of HFRS . Rodent species in Chenzhou , a hantavirus h
Costello syndrome ( CS ) may be caused by activating mutations in codon 12/13 of the HRAS proto-oncogene . HRAS p . Gly12Val mutations have the highest transforming activity , are very frequent in cancers , but very rare in CS , where they are reported to cause a severe , early lethal , phenotype . We identified an unusual , new germline p . Gly12Val mutation , c . 35_36GC>TG , in a 12-year-old boy with attenuated CS . Analysis of his HRAS cDNA showed high levels of exon 2 skipping . Using wild type and mutant HRAS minigenes , we confirmed that c . 35_36GC>TG results in exon 2 skipping by simultaneously disrupting the function of a critical Exonic Splicing Enhancer ( ESE ) and creation of an Exonic Splicing Silencer ( ESS ) . We show that this vulnerability of HRAS exon 2 is caused by a weak 3’ splice site , which makes exon 2 inclusion dependent on binding of splicing stimulatory proteins , like SRSF2 , to the critical ESE . Because the majority of cancer- and CS- causing mutations ar
N6-methyladenosine ( m6A ) RNA methylation is the most abundant modification on mRNAs and plays important roles in various biological processes . The formation of m6A is catalyzed by a methyltransferase complex including methyltransferase-like 3 ( METTL3 ) as a key factor . However , the in vivo functions of METTL3 and m6A modification in mammalian development remain unclear . Here , we show that specific inactivation of Mettl3 in mouse nervous system causes severe developmental defects in the brain . Mettl3 conditional knockout ( cKO ) mice manifest cerebellar hypoplasia caused by drastically enhanced apoptosis of newborn cerebellar granule cells ( CGCs ) in the external granular layer ( EGL ) . METTL3 depletion–induced loss of m6A modification causes extended RNA half-lives and aberrant splicing events , consequently leading to dysregulation of transcriptome-wide gene expression and premature CGC death . Our findings reveal a critical role of METTL3-mediated m6A in regulating the dev
Transcription factors are proteins that regulate gene expression by binding to cis-regulatory sequences such as promoters and enhancers . In embryonic stem ( ES ) cells , binding of the transcription factors OCT4 , SOX2 and NANOG is essential to maintain the capacity of the cells to differentiate into any cell type of the developing embryo . It is known that transcription factors interact to regulate gene expression . In this study we show that combinatorial binding is strongly associated with co-localization of the transcriptional co-activator Mediator , H3K27ac and increased expression of nearby genes in embryonic stem cells . We observe that the same loci bound by Oct4 , Nanog and Sox2 in ES cells frequently drive expression in early embryonic development . Comparison of mouse and human ES cells shows that less than 5% of individual binding events for OCT4 , SOX2 and NANOG are shared between species . In contrast , about 15% of combinatorial binding events and even between 53% and 6
A reciprocal translocation involving chromosomes 8 and 21 generates the AML1/ETO oncogenic transcription factor that initiates acute myeloid leukemia by recruiting co-repressor complexes to DNA . AML1/ETO interferes with the function of its wild-type counterpart , AML1 , by directly targeting AML1 binding sites . However , transcriptional regulation determined by AML1/ETO probably relies on a more complex network , since the fusion protein has been shown to interact with a number of other transcription factors , in particular E-proteins , and may therefore target other sites on DNA . Genome-wide chromatin immunoprecipitation and expression profiling were exploited to identify AML1/ETO-dependent transcriptional regulation . AML1/ETO was found to co-localize with AML1 , demonstrating that the fusion protein follows the binding pattern of the wild-type protein but does not function primarily by displacing it . The DNA binding profile of the E-protein HEB was grossly rearranged upon expres
Chromatin modifications affect several processes . In investigating the Leishmania donovani histone acetyltransferase HAT2 , using in vitro biochemical assays and HAT2-heterozygous genomic knockout we found the constitutively nuclear HAT2 acetylated histone H4K10 in vitro and in vivo . HAT2 was essential . HAT2-depleted cells displayed growth and cell cycle defects , and poor survival in host cells . Real time PCR and DNA microarray analyses , as well as rescue experiments , revealed that downregulation of cyclins CYC4 and CYC9 were responsible for S phase and G2/M defects of HAT2-depleted cells respectively . Leishmania genes are arranged in unidirectional clusters , and clustered genes are coordinately transcribed as long polycistronic units , typically from divergent strand switch regions ( dSSRs ) which initiate transcription bidirectionally on opposite strands . In investigating the mechanism by which CYC4 and CYC9 expression levels are reduced in HAT2-depleted cells without other
Inferring on others' ( potentially time-varying ) intentions is a fundamental problem during many social transactions . To investigate the underlying mechanisms , we applied computational modeling to behavioral data from an economic game in which 16 pairs of volunteers ( randomly assigned to “player” or “adviser” roles ) interacted . The player performed a probabilistic reinforcement learning task , receiving information about a binary lottery from a visual pie chart . The adviser , who received more predictive information , issued an additional recommendation . Critically , the game was structured such that the adviser's incentives to provide helpful or misleading information varied in time . Using a meta-Bayesian modeling framework , we found that the players' behavior was best explained by the deployment of hierarchical learning: they inferred upon the volatility of the advisers' intentions in order to optimize their predictions about the validity of their advice . Beyond learning ,
Scrub typhus is an endemic disease in Asia . It has been a rural disease , but indigenous urban cases have been observed in Seoul , South Korea . Urban scrub typhus may have a significant impact because of the large population . Indigenous urban scrub typhus was epidemiologically identified in Seoul , the largest metropolitan city in South Korea , using national notifiable disease data from 2010 to 2013 . For detailed analysis of clinical features , patients from one hospital that reported the majority of cases were selected and compared to a historic control group . Chigger mites were prospectively collected in the city using a direct chigger mite-collecting trap , and identified using both phenotypic and 18S rDNA sequencing analyses . Their infection with Orientia tsutsugamushi was confirmed by sequencing the 56-kDa antigen gene . Eighty-eight cases of urban scrub typhus were determined in Seoul . The possible sites of infection were mountainous areas ( 56 . 8% ) , city parks ( 20 . 
RNA interference ( RNAi ) –related pathways affect gene activity by sequence-specific recruitment of Ago proteins to mRNA target molecules . The sequence specificity of this process stems from small RNA ( sRNA ) co-factors bound by the Ago protein . Stability of sRNA molecules in some pathways is in part regulated by Hen1-mediated methylation of their 3′ ends . Here we describe the effects of the Caenorhabditis elegans HEN1 RNA–methyl-transferase homolog , HENN-1 , on the different RNAi pathways in this nematode . We reveal differential effects of HENN-1 on the two pathways that are known to employ methylated sRNA molecules: the 26G and 21U pathways . Surprisingly , in the germline , stability of 21U RNAs , the C . elegans piRNAs , is only mildly affected by loss of methylation; and introduction of artificial 21U target RNA does not further destabilize non-methylated 21U RNAs . In contrast , most 26G RNAs display reduced stability and respond to loss of HENN-1 by displaying increased 3
Over half of all proteins are glycosylated , and alterations in glycosylation have been observed in numerous physiological and pathological processes . Attached glycans significantly affect protein function; but , contrary to polypeptides , they are not directly encoded by genes , and the complex processes that regulate their assembly are poorly understood . A novel approach combining genome-wide association and high-throughput glycomics analysis of 2 , 705 individuals in three population cohorts showed that common variants in the Hepatocyte Nuclear Factor 1α ( HNF1α ) and fucosyltransferase genes FUT6 and FUT8 influence N-glycan levels in human plasma . We show that HNF1α and its downstream target HNF4α regulate the expression of key fucosyltransferase and fucose biosynthesis genes . Moreover , we show that HNF1α is both necessary and sufficient to drive the expression of these genes in hepatic cells . These results reveal a new role for HNF1α as a master transcriptional regulator of 
Centromeres are the attachment points between the genome and the cytoskeleton: centromeres bind to kinetochores , which in turn bind to spindles and move chromosomes . Paradoxically , the DNA sequence of centromeres has little or no role in perpetuating kinetochores . As such they are striking examples of genetic information being transmitted in a manner that is independent of DNA sequence ( epigenetically ) . It has been found that RNA transcribed from centromeres remains bound within the kinetochore region , and this local population of RNA is thought to be part of the epigenetic marking system . Here we carried out a genetic and biochemical study of maize CENPC , a key inner kinetochore protein . We show that DNA binding is conferred by a localized region 122 amino acids long , and that the DNA-binding reaction is exquisitely sensitive to single-stranded RNA . Long , single-stranded nucleic acids strongly promote the binding of CENPC to DNA , and the types of RNAs that stabilize DNA
GWAS identified variants associated with birth weight ( BW ) , childhood obesity ( CO ) and childhood BMI ( CBMI ) , and placenta is a critical organ for fetal development and postnatal health . We examined the role of placental transcriptome and eQTLs in mediating the genetic causes for BW , CO and CBMI , and applied integrative analysis ( Colocalization and MetaXcan ) . GWAS loci associated with BW , CO , and CBMI were substantially enriched for placenta eQTLs ( 6 . 76 , 4 . 83 and 2 . 26 folds , respectively ) . Importantly , compared to eQTLs of adult tissues , only placental eQTLs contribute significantly to both anthropometry outcomes at birth ( BW ) and childhood phenotypes ( CO/CBMI ) . Eight , six and one transcripts colocalized with BW , CO and CBMI risk loci , respectively . Our study reveals that placental transcription in utero likely plays a key role in determining postnatal body size , and as such may hold new possibilities for therapeutic interventions to prevent childh
Post Kala-azar Dermal Leishmaniasis ( PKDL ) is a chronic but not life-threatening disease; patients generally do not demand treatment , deserve much more attention because PKDL is highly relevant in the context of Visceral Leishmaniasis ( VL ) elimination . There is no standard guideline for diagnosis and treatment for PKDL . A species-specific PCR on slit skin smear demonstrated a sensitivity of 93 . 8% , but it has not been applied for routine diagnostic purpose . The study was conducted to determine the actual disease burden in an endemic area of Malda district , West Bengal , comparison of the three diagnostic tools for PKDL case detection and pattern of lesion regression after treatment . The prevalence of PKDL was determined by active surveillance and confirmed by PCR based diagnosis . Patients were treated with either sodium stibogluconate ( SSG ) or oral miltefosine and followed up for two years to observe lesion regression period . Twenty six PKDL cases were detected with a p
Bacteria have evolved various inducible genetic programs to face many types of stress that challenge their growth and survival . Competence is one such program . It enables genetic transformation , a major horizontal gene transfer process . Competence development in liquid cultures of Streptococcus pneumoniae is synchronized within the whole cell population . This collective behavior is known to depend on an exported signaling Competence Stimulating Peptide ( CSP ) , whose action generates a positive feedback loop . However , it is unclear how this CSP-dependent population switch is coordinated . By monitoring spontaneous competence development in real time during growth of four distinct pneumococcal lineages , we have found that competence shift in the population relies on a self-activated cell fraction that arises via a growth time-dependent mechanism . We demonstrate that CSP remains bound to cells during this event , and conclude that the rate of competence development corresponds 
The human papillomavirus type 16 ( HPV16 ) L2 protein acts as a chaperone to ensure that the viral genome ( vDNA ) traffics from endosomes to the trans-Golgi network ( TGN ) and eventually the nucleus , where HPV replication occurs . En route to the nucleus , the L2/vDNA complex must translocate across limiting intracellular membranes . The details of this critical process remain poorly characterized . We have developed a system based on subcellular compartmentalization of the enzyme BirA and its cognate substrate to detect membrane translocation of L2-BirA from incoming virions . We find that L2 translocation requires transport to the TGN and is strictly dependent on entry into mitosis , coinciding with mitotic entry in synchronized cells . Cell cycle arrest causes retention of L2/vDNA at the TGN; only release and progression past G2/M enables translocation across the limiting membrane and subsequent infection . Microscopy of EdU-labeled vDNA reveals a rapid and dramatic shift in vDNA
We present a method to measure the relative transmissibility ( “transmission fitness” ) of one strain of a pathogen compared to another . The model is applied to data from “competitive mixtures” experiments in which animals are co-infected with a mixture of two strains . We observe the mixture in each animal over time and over multiple generations of transmission . We use data from influenza experiments in ferrets to demonstrate the approach . Assessment of the relative transmissibility between two strains of influenza is important in at least three contexts: 1 ) Within the human population antigenically novel strains of influenza arise and compete for susceptible hosts . 2 ) During a pandemic event , a novel sub-type of influenza competes with the existing seasonal strain ( s ) . The unfolding epidemiological dynamics are dependent upon both the population's susceptibility profile and the inherent transmissibility of the novel strain compared to the existing strain ( s ) . 3 ) Neurami
Light is one of the most important environmental cues regulating multiple aspects of plant growth and development , and abscisic acid ( ABA ) is a plant hormone that plays important roles during many phases of the plant life cycle and in plants' responses to various environmental stresses . How plants integrate the external light signal with endogenous ABA pathway for better adaptation and survival remains poorly understood . Here , we show that BBX21 ( also known as SALT TOLERANCE HOMOLOG 2 ) , a B-box ( BBX ) protein previously shown to positively regulate seedling photomorphogenesis , is also involved in ABA signaling . Our genetic data show that BBX21 may act upstream of several ABA INSENSITIVE ( ABI ) genes and ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL 5 ( HY5 ) in ABA control of seed germination . Previous studies showed that HY5 acts as a direct activator of ABI5 expression , and that BBX21 interacts with HY5 . We further demonstrate that BBX21 negatively regulates ABI5 expression by interfering with
The Mediator complex is an essential co-regulator of RNA polymerase II that is conserved throughout eukaryotes . Here we present the first study of Mediator in the pathogenic fungus Candida albicans . We focused on the Middle domain subunit Med31 , the Head domain subunit Med20 , and Srb9/Med13 from the Kinase domain . The C . albicans Mediator shares some roles with model yeasts Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Schizosaccharomyces pombe , such as functions in the response to certain stresses and the role of Med31 in the expression of genes regulated by the activator Ace2 . The C . albicans Mediator also has additional roles in the transcription of genes associated with virulence , for example genes related to morphogenesis and gene families enriched in pathogens , such as the ALS adhesins . Consistently , Med31 , Med20 , and Srb9/Med13 contribute to key virulence attributes of C . albicans , filamentation , and biofilm formation; and ALS1 is a biologically relevant target of Med31 for dev
Bacteria in biofilms have higher antibiotic tolerance than their planktonic counterparts . A major outstanding question is the degree to which the biofilm-specific cellular state and its constituent genetic determinants contribute to this hyper-tolerant phenotype . Here , we used genome-wide functional profiling of a complex , heterogeneous mutant population of Pseudomonas aeruginosa MPAO1 in biofilm and planktonic growth conditions with and without tobramycin to systematically quantify the contribution of each locus to antibiotic tolerance under these two states . We identified large sets of mutations that contribute to antibiotic tolerance predominantly in the biofilm or planktonic setting only , offering global insights into the differences and similarities between biofilm and planktonic antibiotic tolerance . Our mixed population-based experimental design recapitulated the complexity of natural biofilms and , unlike previous studies , revealed clinically observed behaviors includin
Most biological systems are difficult to analyse due to a multitude of interacting components and the concomitant lack of information about the essential dynamics . Finding appropriate models that provide a systematic description of such biological systems and that help to identify their relevant factors and processes can be challenging given the sheer number of possibilities . Model selection algorithms that evaluate the performance of a multitude of different models against experimental data provide a useful tool to identify appropriate model structures . However , many algorithms addressing the analysis of complex dynamical systems , as they are often used in biology , compare a preselected number of models or rely on exhaustive searches of the total model space which might be unfeasible dependent on the number of possibilities . Therefore , we developed an algorithm that is able to perform model selection on complex systems and searches large model spaces in a dynamical way . Our a
The National Program for Chagas disease was implemented in Bolivia in 2006 , and it greatly decreased the number of infections through vector control . Subsequently , a treatment regimen of benznidazole ( BNZ ) was started in seropositive school-age children living in certified vector control areas . We conducted a 12-month follow-up study and seven blood samples were taken during and after the treatment . Serology , conventional diagnostic PCR ( cPCR ) and quantitative Real-time PCR ( qPCR ) were performed . Plasma Th1/Th2/Th17 cytokines levels were also determined . Approximately 73 of 103 seropositive children complied with BNZ , with three interruptions due to side effects . To evaluate each individual’s treatment efficacy , the cPCR and qPCR values during the final 6 months of the follow-up period were observed . Among 57 children who completed follow-up , 6 individuals ( 11% ) showed both cPCR ( + ) and qPCR ( + ) ( non reactive ) , 24 ( 42% ) cPCR ( - ) but qPCR ( + ) ( ambiguou
Neisseria meningitidis is the primary causative agent of bacterial meningitis . The genome is rich in repetitive DNA and almost 2% is occupied by a diminutive transposon called the Correia element . Here we report a bioinformatic analysis defining eight subtypes of the element with four distinct types of ends . Transcriptional analysis , using PCR and a lacZ reporter system , revealed that two ends in particular encode strong promoters . The activity of the strongest promoter is dictated by a recurrent polymorphism ( Y128 ) at the right end of the element . We highlight examples of elements that appear to drive transcription of adjacent genes and others that may express small non-coding RNAs . Pair-wise comparisons between three meningococcal genomes revealed that no more than two-thirds of Correia elements maintain their subtype at any particular locus . This is due to recombinational class switching between elements in a single strain . Upon switching subtype , a new allele is availa
LaeA and VeA coordinate secondary metabolism and differentiation in response to light signals in Aspergillus spp . Their orthologs , ChLae1 and ChVel1 , were identified in the maize pathogen Cochliobolus heterostrophus , known to produce a wealth of secondary metabolites , including the host selective toxin , T-toxin . Produced by race T , T-toxin promotes high virulence to maize carrying Texas male sterile cytoplasm ( T-cms ) . T-toxin production is significantly increased in the dark in wild type ( WT ) , whereas Chvel1 and Chlae1 mutant toxin levels are much reduced in the dark compared to WT . Correspondingly , expression of T-toxin biosynthetic genes ( Tox1 ) is up-regulated in the dark in WT , while dark-induced expression is much reduced/minimal in Chvel1 and Chlae1 mutants . Toxin production and Tox1 gene expression are increased in ChVEL1 overexpression ( OE ) strains grown in the dark and in ChLAE1 strains grown in either light or dark , compared to WT . These observations es
Crystal structures of several bacterial Nav channels have been recently published and molecular dynamics simulations of ion permeation through these channels are consistent with many electrophysiological properties of eukaryotic channels . Bacterial Nav channels have been characterized as functionally asymmetric , and the mechanism of this asymmetry has not been clearly understood . To address this question , we combined non-equilibrium simulation data with two-dimensional equilibrium unperturbed landscapes generated by umbrella sampling and Weighted Histogram Analysis Methods for multiple ions traversing the selectivity filter of bacterial NavAb channel . This approach provided new insight into the mechanism of selective ion permeation in bacterial Nav channels . The non-equilibrium simulations indicate that two or three extracellular K+ ions can block the entrance to the selectivity filter of NavAb in the presence of applied forces in the inward direction , but not in the outward dir
Studies of the furious and paralytic forms of canine rabies at the early stage of disease have shown a more rapid viral colonization of the cerebral hemispheres in the furious form , as measured by viral antigen within neuronal cell bodies and viral RNA levels . Measurement of cellular processes separate from neuronal cell body provides a visual record of the spread of rabies virus which occurs across synapses . In this study , the amount of rabies viral antigen within cell processes was quantitatively assessed by image analysis in a cohort of naturally rabies infected non-vaccinated dogs ( 5 furious and 5 paralytic ) that were sacrificed shortly after developing illness . Measurements were taken at different levels of the spinal cord , brain stem , and cerebrum . Results were compared to the amount of rabies viral antigen in neuronal cell bodies . Generally , the amount of rabies viral antigen in cell processes decreased in a rostral direction , following the pattern for the amount of
Insulator or enhancer-blocking elements are proposed to play an important role in the regulation of transcription by preventing inappropriate enhancer/promoter interaction . The zinc-finger protein CTCF is well studied in vertebrates as an enhancer blocking factor , but Drosophila CTCF has only been characterised recently . To date only one endogenous binding location for CTCF has been identified in the Drosophila genome , the Fab-8 insulator in the Abdominal-B locus in the Bithorax complex ( BX-C ) . We carried out chromatin immunopurification coupled with genomic microarray analysis to identify CTCF binding sites within representative regions of the Drosophila genome , including the 3-Mb Adh region , the BX-C , and the Antennapedia complex . Location of in vivo CTCF binding within these regions enabled us to construct a robust CTCF binding-site consensus sequence . CTCF binding sites identified in the BX-C map precisely to the known insulator elements Mcp , Fab-6 , and Fab-8 . Other 
For several decades , molecular recognition has been considered one of the most fundamental processes in biochemistry . For enzymes , substrate binding is often coupled to conformational changes that alter the local environment of the active site to align the reactive groups for efficient catalysis and to reach the transition state . Adaptive substrate recognition is a well-known concept; however , it has been poorly characterized at a structural level because of its dynamic nature . Here , we provide a detailed mechanism for an induced-fit process at atomic resolution . We take advantage of a slow , tight binding inhibitor-enzyme system , actinonin-peptide deformylase . Crystal structures of the initial open state and final closed state were solved , as well as those of several intermediate mimics captured during the process . Ligand-induced reshaping of a hydrophobic pocket drives closure of the active site , which is finally “zipped up” by additional binding interactions . Together 
The thalamus is the primary gateway that relays sensory information to the cerebral cortex . While a single recipient cortical cell receives the convergence of many principal relay cells of the thalamus , each thalamic cell in turn integrates a dense and distributed synaptic feedback from the cortex . During sensory processing , the influence of this functional loop remains largely ignored . Using dynamic-clamp techniques in thalamic slices in vitro , we combined theoretical and experimental approaches to implement a realistic hybrid retino-thalamo-cortical pathway mixing biological cells and simulated circuits . The synaptic bombardment of cortical origin was mimicked through the injection of a stochastic mixture of excitatory and inhibitory conductances , resulting in a gradable correlation level of afferent activity shared by thalamic cells . The study of the impact of the simulated cortical input on the global retinocortical signal transfer efficiency revealed a novel control mecha
The biological roles of nucleic acid methylation , other than at the C5-position of cytosines in CpG dinucleotides , are still not well understood . Here , we report genetic evidence for a critical role for the putative DNA demethylase NMAD-1 in regulating meiosis in C . elegans . nmad-1 mutants have reduced fertility . They show defects in prophase I of meiosis , which leads to reduced embryo production and an increased incidence of males due to defective chromosomal segregation . In nmad-1 mutant worms , nuclear staging beginning at the leptotene and zygotene stages is disorganized , the cohesin complex is mislocalized at the diplotene and diakinesis stages , and chromosomes are improperly condensed , fused , or lost by the end of diakinesis . RNA sequencing of the nmad-1 germline revealed reduced induction of DNA replication and DNA damage response genes during meiosis , which was coupled with delayed DNA replication , impaired DNA repair and increased apoptosis of maturing oocytes 
Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) is a ubiquitous pathogen that can cause disability in newborns and serious clinical diseases in immunocompromised patients . HCMV has a large genome with enormous coding potential; its viral particles are equipped with complicated glycoprotein complexes and can infect a wide range of human cells . Although multiple host cellular receptors interacting with viral glycoproteins have been reported , the mechanism of HCMV infection remains a mystery . Here we report identification of adipocyte plasma membrane-associated protein ( APMAP ) as a novel modulator active in the early stage of HCMV infection . APMAP is necessary for HCMV infection in both epithelial cells and fibroblasts; knockdown of APMAP expression significantly reduced HCMV infection of these cells . Interestingly , ectopic expression of human APMAP in cells refractory to HCMV infection , such as canine MDCK and murine NIH/3T3 cells , promoted HCMV infection . Furthermore , reduction in viral imm
Autoregulation of transcription factors and cross-antagonism between lineage-specific transcription factors are a recurrent theme in cell differentiation . An equally prevalent event that is frequently overlooked in lineage commitment models is the upregulation of lineage-specific receptors , often through lineage-specific transcription factors . Here , we use a minimal model that combines cell-extrinsic and cell-intrinsic elements of regulation in order to understand how both instructive and stochastic events can inform cell commitment decisions in hematopoiesis . Our results suggest that cytokine-mediated positive receptor feedback can induce a “switch-like” response to external stimuli during multilineage differentiation by providing robustness to both bipotent and committed states while protecting progenitors from noise-induced differentiation or decommitment . Our model provides support to both the instructive and stochastic theories of commitment: cell fates are ultimately driven
The genus Orthobunyavirus within the family Bunyaviridae constitutes an expanding group of emerging viruses , which threaten human and animal health . Despite the medical importance , little is known about orthobunyavirus structure , a prerequisite for understanding virus assembly and entry . Here , using electron cryo-tomography , we report the ultrastructure of Bunyamwera virus , the prototypic member of this genus . Whilst Bunyamwera virions are pleomorphic in shape , they display a locally ordered lattice of glycoprotein spikes . Each spike protrudes 18 nm from the viral membrane and becomes disordered upon introduction to an acidic environment . Using sub-tomogram averaging , we derived a three-dimensional model of the trimeric pre-fusion glycoprotein spike to 3-nm resolution . The glycoprotein spike consists mainly of the putative class-II fusion glycoprotein and exhibits a unique tripod-like arrangement . Protein–protein contacts between neighbouring spikes occur at membrane-pro
Anterior chamber depth ( ACD ) is a key anatomical risk factor for primary angle closure glaucoma ( PACG ) . We conducted a genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) on ACD to discover novel genes for PACG on a total of 5 , 308 population-based individuals of Asian descent . Genome-wide significant association was observed at a sequence variant within ABCC5 ( rs1401999; per-allele effect size = −0 . 045 mm , P = 8 . 17×10−9 ) . This locus was associated with an increase in risk of PACG in a separate case-control study of 4 , 276 PACG cases and 18 , 801 controls ( per-allele OR = 1 . 13 [95% CI: 1 . 06–1 . 22] , P = 0 . 00046 ) . The association was strengthened when a sub-group of controls with open angles were included in the analysis ( per-allele OR = 1 . 30 , P = 7 . 45×10−9; 3 , 458 cases vs . 3 , 831 controls ) . Our findings suggest that the increase in PACG risk could in part be mediated by genetic sequence variants influencing anterior chamber dimensions . 
The identification of homologies , whether morphological , molecular , or genetic , is fundamental to our understanding of common biological principles . Homologies bridging the great divide between deuterostomes and protostomes have served as the basis for current models of animal evolution and development . It is now appreciated that these two clades share a common developmental toolkit consisting of conserved transcription factors and signaling pathways . These patterning genes sometimes show common expression patterns and genetic interactions , suggesting the existence of similar or even conserved regulatory apparatus . However , previous studies have found no regulatory sequence conserved between deuterostomes and protostomes . Here we describe the first such enhancers , which we call bilaterian conserved regulatory elements ( Bicores ) . Bicores show conservation of sequence and gene synteny . Sequence conservation of Bicores reflects conserved patterns of transcription factor bi
While influenza virus diversity and antigenic drift have been well characterized on a global scale , the factors that influence the virus’ rapid evolution within and between human hosts are less clear . Given the modest effectiveness of seasonal vaccination , vaccine-induced antibody responses could serve as a potent selective pressure for novel influenza variants at the individual or community level . We used next generation sequencing of patient-derived viruses from a randomized , placebo-controlled trial of vaccine efficacy to characterize the diversity of influenza A virus and to define the impact of vaccine-induced immunity on within-host populations . Importantly , this study design allowed us to isolate the impact of vaccination while still studying natural infection . We used pre-season hemagglutination inhibition and neuraminidase inhibition titers to quantify vaccine-induced immunity directly and to assess its impact on intrahost populations . We identified 166 cases of H3N2 
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) caused by the protozoan parasite Leishmania donovani causes severe disease . Age appears to be critical in determining the clinical outcome of VL and at present there is no effective vaccine available against VL for any age group . Previously , we showed that genetically modified live attenuated L . donovani parasites ( LdCen-/- ) induced a strong protective innate and adaptive immune response in young mice . In this study we analyzed LdCen-/- parasite mediated modulation of innate and adaptive immune response in aged mice ( 18 months ) and compared to young ( 2 months ) mice . Analysis of innate immune response in bone marrow derived dendritic cells ( BMDCs ) from both young and aged mice upon infection with LdCen-/- parasites , showed significant enhancement of innate effector responses , which consequently augmented CD4+ Th1 cell effector function compared to LdWT infected BMDCs in vitro . Similarly , parasitized splenic dendritic cells from LdCen-/- in
Despite their genetic similarities , enteric and respiratory enteroviruses ( EVs ) have highly heterogeneous biophysical properties and cause a vast diversity of human pathologies . In vitro differences include acid sensitivity , optimal growth temperature and tissue tropism , which reflect a preferential in vivo replication in the respiratory or gastrointestinal tract and are thus key determinants of EV virulence . To investigate the underlying cause of these differences , we generated chimeras at the capsid-level between EV-D68 ( a respiratory EV ) and EV-D94 ( an enteric EV ) . Although some chimeras were nonfunctional , EV-D94 with both the capsid and 2A protease or the capsid only of EV-D68 were both viable . Using this latter construct , we performed several functional assays , which indicated that capsid proteins determine acid sensitivity and tropism in cell lines and in respiratory , intestinal and neural tissues . Additionally , capsid genes were shown to also participate in 
The Herpes Simplex Virus 1 ( HSV-1 ) glycoprotein gE-gI is a transmembrane Fc receptor found on the surface of infected cells and virions that binds human immunoglobulin G ( hIgG ) . gE-gI can also participate in antibody bipolar bridging ( ABB ) , a process by which the antigen-binding fragments ( Fabs ) of the IgG bind a viral antigen while the Fc binds to gE-gI . IgG Fc binds gE-gI at basic , but not acidic , pH , suggesting that IgG bound at extracellular pH by cell surface gE-gI would dissociate and be degraded in acidic endosomes/lysosomes if endocytosed . The fate of viral antigens associated with gE-gI–bound IgG had been unknown: they could remain at the cell surface or be endocytosed with IgG . Here , we developed an in vitro model system for ABB and investigated the trafficking of ABB complexes using 4-D confocal fluorescence imaging of ABB complexes with transferrin or epidermal growth factor , well-characterized intracellular trafficking markers . Our data showed that cells
Cystic hydatid disease ( CHD ) is caused by the larval stages of the cestode and affects humans and domestic animals worldwide . Protoscoleces ( PSCs ) are one component of the larval stages that can interact with both definitive and intermediate hosts . Previous genomic and transcriptomic data have provided an overall snapshot of the genomics of the growth and development of this parasite . However , our understanding of how PSCs subvert the immune response of hosts and maintains metabolic adaptation remains unclear . In this study , we used Roche 454 sequencing technology and in silico secretome analysis to explore the transcriptome profiles of the PSCs from E . granulosus and elucidate the potential functions of the excretory-secretory proteins ( ESPs ) released by the parasite . A large number of nonredundant sequences as unigenes were generated ( 26 , 514 ) , of which 22 , 910 ( 86 . 4% ) were mapped to the newly published E . granulosus genome and 17 , 705 ( 66 . 8% ) were distri
The assimilation of nitrate , a most important soil nitrogen source , is tightly regulated in microorganisms and plants . In Aspergillus nidulans , during the transcriptional activation process of nitrate assimilatory genes , the interaction between the pathway-specific transcription factor NirA and the exportin KapK/CRM1 is disrupted , and this leads to rapid nuclear accumulation and transcriptional activity of NirA . In this work by mass spectrometry , we found that in the absence of nitrate , when NirA is inactive and predominantly cytosolic , methionine 169 in the nuclear export sequence ( NES ) is oxidized to methionine sulfoxide ( Metox169 ) . This oxidation depends on FmoB , a flavin-containing monooxygenase which in vitro uses methionine and cysteine , but not glutathione , as oxidation substrates . The function of FmoB cannot be replaced by alternative Fmo proteins present in A . nidulans . Exposure of A . nidulans cells to nitrate led to rapid reduction of NirA-Metox169 to Me
We study how functional constraints bound and shape evolution through an analysis of mammalian voltage-gated sodium channels . The primary function of sodium channels is to allow the propagation of action potentials . Since Hodgkin and Huxley , mathematical models have suggested that sodium channel properties need to be tightly constrained for an action potential to propagate . There are nine mammalian genes encoding voltage-gated sodium channels , many of which are more than ≈90% identical by sequence . This sequence similarity presumably corresponds to similarity of function , consistent with the idea that these properties must be tightly constrained . However , the multiplicity of genes encoding sodium channels raises the question: why are there so many ? We demonstrate that the simplest theoretical constraints bounding sodium channel diversity—the requirements of membrane excitability and the uniqueness of the resting potential—act directly on constraining sodium channel properties
It is generally recognised that novel antiviral drugs , less prone to resistance , would be a desirable alternative to current drug options in order to be able to treat potentially serious influenza infections . The viral polymerase , which performs transcription and replication of the RNA genome , is an attractive target for antiviral drugs since potent polymerase inhibitors could directly stop viral replication at an early stage . Recent structural studies on functional domains of the heterotrimeric polymerase , which comprises subunits PA , PB1 and PB2 , open the way to a structure based approach to optimise inhibitors of viral replication . In particular , the unique cap-snatching mechanism of viral transcription can be inhibited by targeting either the PB2 cap-binding or PA endonuclease domains . Here we describe high resolution X-ray co-crystal structures of the 2009 pandemic H1N1 ( pH1N1 ) PA endonuclease domain with a series of specific inhibitors , including four diketo compou
"Snake envenomation has been estimated to affect 1 . 8 million people annually with about 94 , 000 deaths mostly in poor tropical countries . Specific antivenoms are the only rational and effective therapy for these cases . Efforts are being made to produce effective , affordable and sufficient antivenoms for these victims . The immunization process , which has rarely been described in detail , is one step that needs to be rigorously studied and improved especially with regard to the production of polyspecific antisera . The polyspecific nature of therapeutic antivenom could obviate the need to identify the culprit snake species . The aim of this study was to produce potent polyspecific antisera against 3 medically important vipers of Thailand and its neighboring countries , namely Cryptelytrops albolabris ""White lipped pit viper"" ( CA ) , Calleoselasma rhodostoma “Malayan pit viper” ( CR ) , and Daboia siamensis “Russell’s viper” ( DS ) . Four horses were immunized with a mixture of th"
Host-adapted strains of Salmonella enterica cause systemic infections and have the ability to persist systemically for long periods of time despite the presence of a robust immune response . Chronically infected hosts are asymptomatic and transmit disease to naïve hosts via fecal shedding of bacteria , thereby serving as a critical reservoir for disease . We show that the bacterial effector protein SseI ( also called SrfH ) , which is translocated into host cells by the Salmonella Pathogenicity Island 2 ( SPI2 ) type III secretion system ( T3SS ) , is required for Salmonella typhimurium to maintain a long-term chronic systemic infection in mice . SseI inhibits normal cell migration of primary macrophages and dendritic cells ( DC ) in vitro , and such inhibition requires the host factor IQ motif containing GTPase activating protein 1 ( IQGAP1 ) , an important regulator of cell migration . SseI binds directly to IQGAP1 and co-localizes with this factor at the cell periphery . The C-termi
Community acquired-methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( CA-MRSA ) is a socially problematic pathogen that infects healthy individuals , causing severe disease . CA-MRSA is more virulent than hospital associated-MRSA ( HA-MRSA ) . The underlying mechanism for the high virulence of CA-MRSA is not known . The transcription product of the psm-mec gene , located in the mobile genetic element SCCmec of HA-MRSA , but not CA-MRSA , suppresses the expression of phenol-soluble modulin α ( PSMα ) , a cytolytic toxin of S . aureus . Here we report that psm-mec RNA inhibits translation of the agrA gene encoding a positive transcription factor for the PSMα gene via specific binding to agrA mRNA . Furthermore , 25% of 325 clinical MRSA isolates had a mutation in the psm-mec promoter that attenuated transcription , and 9% of the strains had no psm-mec . In most of these psm-mec-mutated or psm-mec-deleted HA-MRSAs , PSMα expression was increased compared with strains carrying intact psm-mec , 
Epidemiological studies have reported that most of the severe dengue cases occur upon a secondary heterologous infection . Furthermore , babies born to dengue immune mothers are at greater risk of developing severe disease upon primary infection with a heterologous or homologous dengue virus ( DENV ) serotype when maternal antibodies reach sub-neutralizing concentrations . These observations have been explained by the antibody mediated disease enhancement ( ADE ) phenomenon whereby heterologous antibodies or sub-neutralizing homologous antibodies bind to but fail to neutralize DENV particles , allowing Fc-receptor mediated entry of the virus-antibody complexes into host cells . This eventually results in enhanced viral replication and heightened inflammatory responses . In an attempt to replicate this ADE phenomenon in a mouse model , we previously reported that upon DENV2 infection 5-week old type I and II interferon ( IFN ) receptors-deficient mice ( AG129 ) born to DENV1-immune moth
Still today , more than 30 years after the beginning of the process of visceral leishmaniasis' urbanization , there is little knowledge about the risk factors for its occurrence , despite their relevance to the control and understanding of disease dynamics . The present study is the first systematic review with meta-analysis about factors associated with Leishmania infantum infection in humans in the Americas . After searching different databases , consultations to the reference lists of articles and to experts in the field , 51 studies were reviewed . Theoretical discussions or meta-analysis of p-values or of effect sizes were used to pool information about each variable . The Q test and the I2 statistic were used to assess heterogeneities among the studies . Male sex was associated with visceral leishmaniasis in studies which used the leishmanin skin test for diagnosis and in those where the outcome was the clinical disease; the opposite occurred when serological diagnosis was applie
Inhalation of Francisella tularensis ( Ft ) causes acute and fatal pneumonia . The lung cytokine milieu favors exponential Ft replication , but the mechanisms underlying acute pathogenesis and death remain unknown . Evaluation of the sequential and systemic host immune response in pulmonary tularemia reveals that in contrast to overwhelming bacterial burden or cytokine production , an overt innate cellular response to Ft drives tissue pathology and host mortality . Lethal infection with Ft elicits medullary and extra-medullary myelopoiesis supporting recruitment of large numbers of immature myeloid cells and MDSC to the lungs . These cells fail to mature and die , leading to subsequent necrotic lung damage , loss of pulmonary function , and host death that is partially dependent upon immature Ly6G+ cells . Acceleration of this process may account for the rapid lethality seen with Ft SchuS4 . In contrast , during sub-lethal infection with Ft LVS the pulmonary cellular response is charac
Invasive species represent a global concern for their rapid spread and the possibility of infectious disease transmission . This is the case of the global invader Aedes albopictus , the Asian tiger mosquito . This species is a vector of medically important arboviruses , notably chikungunya ( CHIKV ) , dengue ( DENV ) and Zika ( ZIKV ) . The reconstruction of the complex colonization pattern of this mosquito has great potential for mitigating its spread and , consequently , disease risks . Classical population genetics analyses and Approximate Bayesian Computation ( ABC ) approaches were combined to disentangle the demographic history of Aedes albopictus populations from representative countries in the Southeast Asian native range and in the recent and more recently colonized areas . In Southeast Asia , the low differentiation and the high co-ancestry values identified among China , Thailand and Japan indicate that , in the native range , these populations maintain high genetic connecti
While much is known about acute infection pathogenesis , the understanding of chronic infections has lagged . Here we sought to identify the genes and functions that mediate fitness of the pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa in chronic wound infections , and to better understand the selective environment in wounds . We found that clinical isolates from chronic human wounds were frequently defective in virulence functions and biofilm formation , and that many virulence and biofilm formation genes were not required for bacterial fitness in experimental mouse wounds . In contrast , genes involved in anaerobic growth , some metabolic and energy pathways , and membrane integrity were critical . Consistent with these findings , the fitness characteristics of some wound impaired-mutants could be represented by anaerobic , oxidative , and membrane-stress conditions ex vivo , and more comprehensively by high-density bacterial growth conditions , in the absence of a host . These data shed light on t
Chronic hydrocele is the most common manifestation of bancroftian filariasis , an endemic disease in 80 countries . In a prospective study , we evaluated the occurrence of intrascrotal lymphangiectasia , gross appearance/consistency of the testis , and the efficacy of complete excision of hydrocele sac in patients living in a bancroftian filariasis endemic area who underwent hydrocelectomy at the Center for Teaching , Research and Tertiary Referral for Bancroftian Filariasis ( NEPAF ) . A total of 968 patients with uni- or bilateral filarial hydrocele ( Group-1 ) and a Comparison Group ( CG ) of 218 patients from the same area who already had undergone hydrocele-sac-sparing hydrocelectomy elsewhere were enrolled at NEPAF . Twenty-eight patients from the Comparison Group with hydrocele recurrence were re-operated on at NEPAF and constitute Group-2 . In Group-1 a total of 1 , 128 hydrocelectomies were performed ( mean patient age of 30 . 3yr and mean follow-up of 8 . 6yr [range 5 . 3–12]
Trichinella spiralis is a zoonotic parasitic nematode that causes trichinellosis , a disease that has been identified on all continents except Antarctica . During chronic infection , T . spiralis larvae infect skeletal myofibres , severely disrupting their differentiation state . An activity-based probe , HA-Ub-VME , was used to identify deubiquitinating enzyme ( DUB ) activity in lysate of T . spiralis L1 larvae . Results were analysed by immuno-blot and immuno-precipitation , identifying a number of potential DUBs . Immuno-precipitated proteins were subjected to LC/MS/MS , yielding peptides with sequence homology to 5 conserved human DUBs: UCH-L5 , UCH-L3 , HAUSP , OTU 6B and Ataxin-3 . The predicted gene encoding the putative UCH-L5 homologue , TsUCH37 , was cloned and recombinant protein was expressed and purified . The deubiquitinating activity of this enzyme was verified by Ub-AMC assay . Co-precipitation of recombinant TsUCH37 showed that the protein associates with putative T .
The cysteine protease cruzipain is considered to be a validated target for therapeutic intervention in the treatment of Chagas disease . Anti-trypanosomal activity against the CL Brener strain of T . cruzi was observed in the 0 . 1 μM to 1 μM range for three nitrile-based cysteine protease inhibitors based on two scaffolds known to be associated with cathepsin K inhibition . The two compounds showing the greatest potency against the trypanosome were characterized by EC50 values ( 0 . 12 μM and 0 . 25 μM ) that were an order of magnitude lower than the corresponding Ki values measured against cruzain , a recombinant form of cruzipain , in an enzyme inhibition assay . This implies that the anti-trypanosomal activity of these two compounds may not be explained only by the inhibition of the cruzain enzyme , thereby triggering a putative polypharmacological profile towards cysteine proteases . 
Maize ( Zea mays L . ) is one of the most important cereal crops and a model for the study of genetics , evolution , and domestication . To better understand maize genome organization and to build a framework for genome sequencing , we constructed a sequence-ready fingerprinted contig-based physical map that covers 93 . 5% of the genome , of which 86 . 1% is aligned to the genetic map . The fingerprinted contig map contains 25 , 908 genic markers that enabled us to align nearly 73% of the anchored maize genome to the rice genome . The distribution pattern of expressed sequence tags correlates to that of recombination . In collinear regions , 1 kb in rice corresponds to an average of 3 . 2 kb in maize , yet maize has a 6-fold genome size expansion . This can be explained by the fact that most rice regions correspond to two regions in maize as a result of its recent polyploid origin . Inversions account for the majority of chromosome structural variations during subsequent maize diploidi
Prions are the proteinaceous infectious agents responsible for Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathies . Compelling evidence supports the hypothesis that prions are composed exclusively of a misfolded version of the prion protein ( PrPSc ) that replicates in the body in the absence of nucleic acids by inducing the misfolding of the cellular prion protein ( PrPC ) . The most common form of human prion disease is sporadic , which appears to have its origin in a low frequency event of spontaneous misfolding to generate the first PrPSc particle that then propagates as in the infectious form of the disease . The main goal of this study was to mimic an early event in the etiology of sporadic disease by attempting de novo generation of infectious PrPSc in vitro . For this purpose we analyzed in detail the possibility of spontaneous generation of PrPSc by the protein misfolding cyclic amplification ( PMCA ) procedure . Under standard PMCA conditions , and taking precautions to avoid cross-co
We present a novel neurally based model for estimating angular velocity ( AV ) in the bee brain , capable of quantitatively reproducing experimental observations of visual odometry and corridor-centering in free-flying honeybees , including previously unaccounted for manipulations of behaviour . The model is fitted using electrophysiological data , and tested using behavioural data . Based on our model we suggest that the AV response can be considered as an evolutionary extension to the optomotor response . The detector is tested behaviourally in silico with the corridor-centering paradigm , where bees navigate down a corridor with gratings ( square wave or sinusoidal ) on the walls . When combined with an existing flight control algorithm the detector reproduces the invariance of the average flight path to the spatial frequency and contrast of the gratings , including deviations from perfect centering behaviour as found in the real bee’s behaviour . In addition , the summed response o
The final outcome of infection by Trypanosoma brucei gambiense , the main agent of sleeping sickness , has always been considered as invariably fatal . While scarce and old reports have mentioned cases of self-cure in untreated patients , these studies suffered from the lack of accurate diagnostic tools available at that time . Here , using the most specific and sensitive tools available to date , we report on a long-term follow-up ( 15 years ) of a cohort of 50 human African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) patients from the Ivory Coast among whom 11 refused treatment after their initial diagnosis . In 10 out of 11 subjects who continued to refuse treatment despite repeated visits , parasite clearance was observed using both microscopy and polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) . Most of these subjects ( 7/10 ) also displayed decreasing serological responses , becoming progressively negative to trypanosome variable antigens ( LiTat 1 . 3 , 1 . 5 and 1 . 6 ) . Hence , in addition to the “classic” le
Identification and characterization of mutations that drive cancer evolution constitute a major focus of cancer research . Consequently , dominant paradigms attribute the tumorigenic effects of carcinogens in general and ionizing radiation in particular to their direct mutagenic action on genetic loci encoding oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes . However , the effects of irradiation are not limited to genetic loci that encode oncogenes and tumor suppressors , as irradiation induces a multitude of other changes both in the cells and their microenvironment which could potentially affect the selective effects of some oncogenic mutations . P53 is a key tumor suppressor , the loss of which can provide resistance to multiple genotoxic stimuli , including irradiation . Given that p53 null animals develop T-cell lymphomas with high penetrance and that irradiation dramatically accelerates lymphoma development in p53 heterozygous mice , we hypothesized that increased selection for p53-deficien
Protease inhibitors have important function during homeostasis , inflammation and tissue injury . In this study , we described the role of Schistosoma mansoni SmKI-1 serine protease inhibitor in parasite development and as a molecule capable of regulating different models of inflammatory diseases . First , we determine that recombinant ( r ) SmKI-1 and its Kunitz domain but not the C-terminal region possess inhibitory activity against trypsin and neutrophil elastase ( NE ) . To better understand the molecular basis of NE inhibition by SmKI-1 , molecular docking studies were also conducted . Docking results suggest a complete blockage of NE active site by SmKI-1 Kunitz domain . Additionally , rSmKI-1 markedly inhibited the capacity of NE to kill schistosomes . In order to further investigate the role of SmKI-1 in the parasite , we designed specific siRNA to knockdown SmKI-1 in S . mansoni . SmKI-1 gene suppression in larval stage of S . mansoni robustly impact in parasite development in
Eukaryotic transmembrane helical ( TMH ) proteins perform a wide diversity of critical cellular functions , but remain structurally largely uncharacterized and their high-resolution structure prediction is currently hindered by the lack of close structural homologues . To address this problem , we present a novel and generic method for accurately modeling large TMH protein structures from distant homologues exhibiting distinct loop and TMH conformations . Models of the adenosine A2AR and chemokine CXCR4 receptors were first ranked in GPCR-DOCK blind prediction contests in the receptor structure accuracy category . In a benchmark of 50 TMH protein homolog pairs of diverse topology ( from 5 to 12 TMHs ) , size ( from 183 to 420 residues ) and sequence identity ( from 15% to 70% ) , the method improves most starting templates , and achieves near-atomic accuracy prediction of membrane-embedded regions . Unlike starting templates , the models are of suitable quality for computer-based prote
Listeria monocytogenes causes listeriosis , a foodborne disease that poses serious risks to fetuses , newborns and immunocompromised adults . This intracellular bacterial pathogen proliferates in the host cytosol and exploits the host actin polymerization machinery to spread from cell-to-cell and disseminate in the host . Here , we report that during several days of infection in human hepatocytes or trophoblast cells , L . monocytogenes switches from this active motile lifestyle to a stage of persistence in vacuoles . Upon intercellular spread , bacteria gradually stopped producing the actin-nucleating protein ActA and became trapped in lysosome-like vacuoles termed Listeria-Containing Vacuoles ( LisCVs ) . Subpopulations of bacteria resisted degradation in LisCVs and entered a slow/non-replicative state . During the subculture of host cells harboring LisCVs , bacteria showed a capacity to cycle between the vacuolar and the actin-based motility stages . When ActA was absent , such as i
Sequences of higher frequency A and lower frequency B tones repeating in an ABA- triplet pattern are widely used to study auditory streaming . One may experience either an integrated percept , a single ABA-ABA- stream , or a segregated percept , separate but simultaneous streams A-A-A-A- and -B---B-- . During minutes-long presentations , subjects may report irregular alternations between these interpretations . We combine neuromechanistic modeling and psychoacoustic experiments to study these persistent alternations and to characterize the effects of manipulating stimulus parameters . Unlike many phenomenological models with abstract , percept-specific competition and fixed inputs , our network model comprises neuronal units with sensory feature dependent inputs that mimic the pulsatile-like A1 responses to tones in the ABA- triplets . It embodies a neuronal computation for percept competition thought to occur beyond primary auditory cortex ( A1 ) . Mutual inhibition , adaptation and n
Parasite-specific IgE is thought to correlate with protection against Schistosoma mansoni infection or re-infection . Only a few molecular targets of the IgE response in S . mansoni infection have been characterised . A better insight into the basic mechanisms of anti-parasite immunity could be gained from a genome-wide characterisation of such S . mansoni allergens . This would have repercussions on our understanding of allergy and the development of safe and efficacious vaccinations against helminthic parasites . A complete medium- to high-throughput amenable workflow , including important quality controls , is described , which enables the rapid translation of S . mansoni proteins using wheat germ lysate and subsequent assessment of potential allergenicity with a humanised Rat Basophilic Leukemia ( RBL ) reporter cell line . Cell-free translation is completed within 90 minutes , generating sufficient amounts of parasitic protein for rapid screening of allergenicity without any need 
Sexual reproduction allows transposable elements ( TEs ) to proliferate , leading to rapid divergence between populations and species . A significant outcome of divergence in the TE landscape is evident in hybrid dysgenic syndromes , a strong form of genomic incompatibility that can arise when ( TE ) family abundance differs between two parents . When TEs inherited from the father are absent in the mother's genome , TEs can become activated in the progeny , causing germline damage and sterility . Studies in Drosophila indicate that dysgenesis can occur when TEs inherited paternally are not matched with a pool of corresponding TE silencing PIWI-interacting RNAs ( piRNAs ) provisioned by the female germline . Using the D . virilis syndrome of hybrid dysgenesis as a model , we characterize the effects that divergence in TE profile between parents has on offspring . Overall , we show that divergence in the TE landscape is associated with persisting differences in germline TE expression whe
Fragile X Tremor Ataxia Syndrome ( FXTAS ) is a common inherited neurodegenerative disorder caused by expansion of a CGG trinucleotide repeat in the 5′UTR of the fragile X syndrome ( FXS ) gene , FMR1 . The expanded CGG repeat is thought to induce toxicity as RNA , and in FXTAS patients mRNA levels for FMR1 are markedly increased . Despite the critical role of FMR1 mRNA in disease pathogenesis , the basis for the increase in FMR1 mRNA expression is unknown . Here we show that overexpressing any of three histone deacetylases ( HDACs 3 , 6 , or 11 ) suppresses CGG repeat–induced neurodegeneration in a Drosophila model of FXTAS . This suppression results from selective transcriptional repression of the CGG repeat–containing transgene . These findings led us to evaluate the acetylation state of histones at the human FMR1 locus . In patient-derived lymphoblasts and fibroblasts , we determined by chromatin immunoprecipitation that there is increased acetylation of histones at the FMR1 locus 
Effective CD8 T cell responses are vital for the control of chronic viral infections . Many factors of the host immune response contribute to the maintenance of effector CD8 T cell responses versus CD8 T cell exhaustion during chronic infection . Specific MHC alleles and the degree of MHC heterogeneity are associated with enhanced CD8 T cell function and viral control during human chronic infection . However , it is currently unclear to what extent host genetics influences the establishment of chronic viral infection . In order to examine the impact of MHC heterogeneity versus non-MHC host genetics on the development of chronic viral infection , an F1 cross of B10 . D2 x B6 ( D2B6F1 ) and BALB . B x BALB/c ( BCF1 ) mice were infected with the clone-13 ( Cl-13 ) strain of lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus ( LCMV ) . Following chronic Cl-13 infection both H-2bxd D2B6F1 and BCF1 mice demonstrated increased viral control compared to homozygous mice . Strikingly , H-2bxd D2B6F1 mice on a C
Anthrax is a global re-emerging zoonotic disease and is an endemic disease in China , especially in rural regions . In this study , the general characteristics of human anthrax outbreaks that occurred in areas of northwestern China over the past decade have been described . Meanwhile , the genetic characteristics of Bacillus anthracis isolated from these areas from 1990 to 2016 were analyzed by means of canonical single-nucleotide polymorphism ( canSNP ) analysis and multilocus variable-number tandem repeat analysis ( MLVA ) with 15 markers . Five sublineages/subgroups , namely , A . Br . 001/002 , A . Br . Vollum , A . Br . Aust94 , A . Br . Ames and A . Br . 008/009 , were detected by using 13 canSNP sites . All of the sublineages were found in Xinjiang province , while one sublineage was found in Shaanxi , two in Gansu , three in Qinghai and four in Inner Mongolia . However , the geographical distribution of the B . anthracis populations exhibited different canSNP characteristics fr
Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli and related food and waterborne pathogens pose significant threats to human health . These attaching/effacing microbes infect the apical surface of intestinal epithelial cells ( IEC ) , causing severe diarrheal disease . Colonizing the intestinal luminal surface helps segregate these microbes from most host inflammatory responses . Based on studies using Citrobacter rodentium , a related mouse pathogen , we speculate that hosts rely on immune-mediated changes in IEC , including goblet cells to defend against these pathogens . These changes include a CD4+ T cell-dependent increase in IEC proliferation to replace infected IEC , as well as altered production of the goblet cell-derived mucin Muc2 . Another goblet cell mediator , REsistin-Like Molecule ( RELM ) -β is strongly induced within goblet cells during C . rodentium infection , and was detected in the stool as well as serum . Despite its dramatic induction , RELM-β’s role in host defense is unclear
Translation initiation is a critical early step in the replication cycle of the positive-sense , single-stranded RNA genome of noroviruses , a major cause of gastroenteritis in humans . Norovirus RNA , which has neither a 5´ m7G cap nor an internal ribosome entry site ( IRES ) , adopts an unusual mechanism to initiate protein synthesis that relies on interactions between the VPg protein covalently attached to the 5´-end of the viral RNA and eukaryotic initiation factors ( eIFs ) in the host cell . For murine norovirus ( MNV ) we previously showed that VPg binds to the middle fragment of eIF4G ( 4GM; residues 652–1132 ) . Here we have used pull-down assays , fluorescence anisotropy , and isothermal titration calorimetry ( ITC ) to demonstrate that a stretch of ~20 amino acids at the C terminus of MNV VPg mediates direct and specific binding to the HEAT-1 domain within the 4GM fragment of eIF4G . Our analysis further reveals that the MNV C terminus binds to eIF4G HEAT-1 via a motif that 
Genes encoding proteins in a common pathway are often found near each other along bacterial chromosomes . Several explanations have been proposed to account for the evolution of these structures . For instance , natural selection may directly favour gene clusters through a variety of mechanisms , such as increased efficiency of coregulation . An alternative and controversial hypothesis is the selfish operon model , which asserts that clustered arrangements of genes are more easily transferred to other species , thus improving the prospects for survival of the cluster . According to another hypothesis ( the persistence model ) , genes that are in close proximity are less likely to be disrupted by deletions . Here we develop computational models to study the conditions under which gene clusters can evolve and persist . First , we examine the selfish operon model by re-implementing the simulation and running it under a wide range of conditions . Second , we introduce and study a Moran pro
Malaria , caused by the parasite Plasmodium falciparum , is responsible for substantial morbidity , mortality and economic losses in tropical regions of the world . Pregnant women are exceptionally vulnerable to severe consequences of the infection , due to the specific adhesion of parasite-infected erythrocytes in the placenta . This adhesion is mediated by a unique variant of PfEMP1 , a parasite encoded , hyper-variable antigen placed on the surface of infected cells . This variant , called VAR2CSA , binds to chondroitin sulfate A on syncytiotrophoblasts in the intervillous space of placentas . VAR2CSA appears to only be expressed in the presence of a placenta , suggesting that its expression is actively repressed in men , children or non-pregnant women; however , the mechanism of repression is not understood . Using cultured parasite lines and reporter gene constructs , we show that the gene encoding VAR2CSA contains a small upstream open reading frame that acts to repress translati
Infection with dengue viruses ( DENV ) leads to a spectrum of disease outcomes . The pathophysiology of severe versus non-severe manifestations of DENV infection may be driven by host responses , which could be reflected in the transcriptional profiles of peripheral blood immune cells . We conducted genome-wide microarray analysis of whole blood RNA from 34 DENV-infected children in Nicaragua collected on days 3–6 of illness , with different disease manifestations . Gene expression analysis identified genes that are differentially regulated between clinical subgroups . The most striking transcriptional differences were observed between dengue patients with and without shock , especially in the expression of mitochondrial ribosomal proteins associated with protein biosynthesis . In the dengue hemorrhagic fever patients , one subset of differentially expressed genes encode neutrophil-derived anti-microbial peptides associated with innate immunity . By performing a meta-analysis of our da
Herpesviruses are ubiquitous pathogens that cause much disease . The difficulty of clearing their established infections makes host entry an important target for control . However , while herpesviruses have been studied extensively in vitro , how they cross differentiated mucus-covered epithelia in vivo is unclear . To establish general principles we tracked host entry by Murid Herpesvirus-4 ( MuHV-4 ) , a lymphotropic rhadinovirus related to the Kaposi's Sarcoma-associated Herpesvirus . Spontaneously acquired virions targeted the olfactory neuroepithelium . Like many herpesviruses , MuHV-4 binds to heparan sulfate ( HS ) , and virions unable to bind HS showed poor host entry . While the respiratory epithelium expressed only basolateral HS and was bound poorly by incoming virions , the neuroepithelium also displayed HS on its apical neuronal cilia and was bound strongly . Incoming virions tracked down the neuronal cilia , and either infected neurons or reached the underlying microvilli
Invasion of epithelial cells by Salmonella enterica requires expression of genes located in the pathogenicity island I ( SPI-1 ) . The expression of SPI-1 genes is very tightly regulated and activated only under specific conditions . Most studies have focused on the regulatory pathways that induce SPI-1 expression . Here , we describe a new regulatory circuit involving CRP-cAMP , a widely established metabolic regulator , in silencing of SPI-1 genes under non-permissive conditions . In CRP-cAMP-deficient strains we detected a strong upregulation of SPI-1 genes in the mid-logarithmic growth phase . Genetic analyses revealed that CRP-cAMP modulates the level of HilD , the master regulator of Salmonella invasion . This regulation occurs at the post-transcriptional level and requires the presence of a newly identified regulatory motif within the hilD 3’UTR . We further demonstrate that in Salmonella the Hfq-dependent sRNA Spot 42 is under the transcriptional repression of CRP-cAMP and , wh
The expansion of CAG/CTG repeats is responsible for many diseases , including Huntington's disease ( HD ) and myotonic dystrophy 1 . CAG/CTG expansions are unstable in selective somatic tissues , which accelerates disease progression . The mechanisms underlying repeat instability are complex , and it remains unclear whether chromatin structure and/or transcription contribute to somatic CAG/CTG instability in vivo . To address these issues , we investigated the relationship between CAG instability , chromatin structure , and transcription at the HD locus using the R6/1 and R6/2 HD transgenic mouse lines . These mice express a similar transgene , albeit integrated at a different site , and recapitulate HD tissue-specific instability . We show that instability rates are increased in R6/2 tissues as compared to R6/1 matched-samples . High transgene expression levels and chromatin accessibility correlated with the increased CAG instability of R6/2 mice . Transgene mRNA and H3K4 trimethylati
Enterovirus 71 ( EV71 ) is one of the most virulent enteroviruses , but the specific molecular features that enhance its ability to disseminate in humans remain unknown . We analyzed the genomic features of EV71 in an immunocompromised host with disseminated disease according to the different sites of infection . Comparison of five full-length genomes sequenced directly from respiratory , gastrointestinal , nervous system , and blood specimens revealed three nucleotide changes that occurred within a five-day period: a non-conservative amino acid change in VP1 located within the BC loop ( L97R ) , a region considered as an immunogenic site and possibly important in poliovirus host adaptation; a conservative amino acid substitution in protein 2B ( A38V ) ; and a silent mutation in protein 3D ( L175 ) . Infectious clones were constructed using both BrCr ( lineage A ) and the clinical strain ( lineage C ) backgrounds containing either one or both non-synonymous mutations . In vitro cell tr
Natural transformation , or competence , is an ability inherent to bacteria for the uptake of extracellular DNA . This process is central to bacterial evolution and allows for the rapid acquirement of new traits , such as antibiotic resistance in pathogenic microorganisms . For the Gram-positive bacteria genus Streptococcus , genes required for competence are under the regulation of quorum sensing ( QS ) mediated by peptide pheromones . One such system , ComRS , consists of a peptide ( ComS ) that is processed ( XIP ) , secreted , and later imported into the cytoplasm , where it binds and activates the transcription factor ComR . ComR then engages in a positive feedback loop for the expression of ComS and the alternative sigma-factor SigX . Although ComRS are present in the majority of Streptococcus species , the sequence of both ComS/XIP and ComR diverge significantly , suggesting a mechanism for species-specific communication . To study possible cross-talk between streptococcal speci
Eukaryotic centromeres are maintained at specific chromosomal sites over many generations . In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae , centromeres are genetic elements defined by a DNA sequence that is both necessary and sufficient for function; whereas , in most other eukaryotes , centromeres are maintained by poorly characterized epigenetic mechanisms in which DNA has a less definitive role . Here we use the pathogenic yeast Candida albicans as a model organism to study the DNA replication properties of centromeric DNA . By determining the genome-wide replication timing program of the C . albicans genome , we discovered that each centromere is associated with a replication origin that is the first to fire on its respective chromosome . Importantly , epigenetic formation of new ectopic centromeres ( neocentromeres ) was accompanied by shifts in replication timing , such that a neocentromere became the first to replicate and became associated with origin recognition complex ( ORC 
Back pain is the #1 cause of years lived with disability worldwide , yet surprisingly little is known regarding the biology underlying this symptom . We conducted a genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) meta-analysis of chronic back pain ( CBP ) . Adults of European ancestry were included from 15 cohorts in the Cohorts for Heart and Aging Research in Genomic Epidemiology ( CHARGE ) consortium , and from the UK Biobank interim data release . CBP cases were defined as those reporting back pain present for ≥3–6 months; non-cases were included as comparisons ( “controls” ) . Each cohort conducted genotyping using commercially available arrays followed by imputation . GWAS used logistic regression models with additive genetic effects , adjusting for age , sex , study-specific covariates , and population substructure . The threshold for genome-wide significance in the fixed-effect inverse-variance weighted meta-analysis was p<5×10−8 . Suggestive ( p<5×10−7 ) and genome-wide significant ( p<
Taenia solium cysticercosis is an important zoonosis in many developing countries . Human neurocysticercosis is recognised as an important cause of epilepsy in regions where the parasite occurs . However , it is largely underreported and there is a lack of data about the disease burden . Because a body of information on human and porcine cysticercosis in Cameroon is becoming available , the present study was undertaken to calculate the impact of this neglected zoonosis . Both the cost and Disability Adjusted Life Year ( DALY ) estimations were applied . All necessary parameters were collected and imported in R software . Different distributions were used according to the type of information available for each of the parameters . Based on a prevalence of epilepsy of 3 . 6% , the number of people with neurocysticercosis-associated epilepsy was estimated at 50 , 326 ( 95% CR 37 , 299–65 , 924 ) , representing 1 . 0% of the local population , whereas the number of pigs diagnosed with cysti
Staphylococcus aureus produces a high number of RNAs for which the functions are poorly understood . Several non-coding RNAs carry a C-rich sequence suggesting that they regulate mRNAs at the post-transcriptional level . We demonstrate that the Sigma B-dependent RsaA RNA represses the synthesis of the global transcriptional regulator MgrA by forming an imperfect duplex with the Shine and Dalgarno sequence and a loop-loop interaction within the coding region of the target mRNA . These two recognition sites are required for translation repression . Consequently , RsaA causes enhanced production of biofilm and a decreased synthesis of capsule formation in several strain backgrounds . These phenotypes led to a decreased protection of S . aureus against opsonophagocytic killing by polymorphonuclear leukocytes compared to the mutant strains lacking RsaA . Mice animal models showed that RsaA attenuates the severity of acute systemic infections and enhances chronic catheter infection . RsaA ta
Disassembly of the cone-shaped HIV-1 capsid in target cells is a prerequisite for establishing a life-long infection . This step in HIV-1 entry , referred to as uncoating , is critical yet poorly understood . Here we report a novel strategy to visualize HIV-1 uncoating using a fluorescently tagged oligomeric form of a capsid-binding host protein cyclophilin A ( CypA-DsRed ) , which is specifically packaged into virions through the high-avidity binding to capsid ( CA ) . Single virus imaging reveals that CypA-DsRed remains associated with cores after permeabilization/removal of the viral membrane and that CypA-DsRed and CA are lost concomitantly from the cores in vitro and in living cells . The rate of loss is modulated by the core stability and is accelerated upon the initiation of reverse transcription . We show that the majority of single cores lose CypA-DsRed shortly after viral fusion , while a small fraction remains intact for several hours . Single particle tracking at late times
Oligonucleotide usage in archaeal and bacterial genomes can be linked to a number of properties , including codon usage ( trinucleotides ) , DNA base-stacking energy ( dinucleotides ) , and DNA structural conformation ( di- to tetranucleotides ) . We wanted to assess the statistical information potential of different DNA ‘word-sizes’ and explore how oligonucleotide frequencies differ in coding and non-coding regions . In addition , we used oligonucleotide frequencies to investigate DNA composition and how DNA sequence patterns change within and between prokaryotic organisms . Among the results found was that prokaryotic chromosomes can be described by hexanucleotide frequencies , suggesting that prokaryotic DNA is predominantly short range correlated , i . e . , information in prokaryotic genomes is encoded in short oligonucleotides . Oligonucleotide usage varied more within AT-rich and host-associated genomes than in GC-rich and free-living genomes , and this variation was mainly loca
Meiotic recombination ensures the correct segregation of homologous chromosomes during gamete formation and contributes to DNA diversity through both large-scale reciprocal crossovers and very localised gene conversion events , also known as noncrossovers . Considerable progress has been made in understanding factors such as PRDM9 and SNP variants that influence the initiation of recombination at human hotspots but very little is known about factors acting downstream . To address this , we simultaneously analysed both types of recombinant molecule in sperm DNA at six highly active hotspots , and looked for disparity in the transmission of allelic variants indicative of any cis-acting influences . At two of the hotspots we identified a novel form of biased transmission that was exclusive to the noncrossover class of recombinant , and which presumably arises through differences between crossovers and noncrossovers in heteroduplex formation and biased mismatch repair . This form of biased
Exposure to environmental chemicals and drugs may have a negative effect on human health . A better understanding of the molecular mechanism of such compounds is needed to determine the risk . We present a high confidence human protein-protein association network built upon the integration of chemical toxicology and systems biology . This computational systems chemical biology model reveals uncharacterized connections between compounds and diseases , thus predicting which compounds may be risk factors for human health . Additionally , the network can be used to identify unexpected potential associations between chemicals and proteins . Examples are shown for chemicals associated with breast cancer , lung cancer and necrosis , and potential protein targets for di-ethylhexyl-phthalate , 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin , pirinixic acid and permethrine . The chemical-protein associations are supported through recent published studies , which illustrate the power of our approach t
Cortical sensory neurons are commonly characterized using the receptive field , the linear dependence of their response on the stimulus . In primary auditory cortex neurons can be characterized by their spectrotemporal receptive fields , the spectral and temporal features of a sound that linearly drive a neuron . However , receptive fields do not capture the fact that the response of a cortical neuron results from the complex nonlinear network in which it is embedded . By fitting a nonlinear feedforward network model ( a network receptive field ) to cortical responses to natural sounds , we reveal that primary auditory cortical neurons are sensitive over a substantially larger spectrotemporal domain than is seen in their standard spectrotemporal receptive fields . Furthermore , the network receptive field , a parsimonious network consisting of 1–7 sub-receptive fields that interact nonlinearly , consistently better predicts neural responses to auditory stimuli than the standard recepti
Intracellular circadian clocks , composed of clock genes that act in transcription-translation feedback loops , drive global rhythmic expression of the mammalian transcriptome and allow an organism to anticipate to the momentum of the day . Using a novel clock-perturbing peptide , we established a pivotal role for casein kinase ( CK ) -2-mediated circadian BMAL1-Ser90 phosphorylation ( BMAL1-P ) in regulating central and peripheral core clocks . Subsequent analysis of the underlying mechanism showed a novel role of CRY as a repressor for protein kinase . Co-immunoprecipitation experiments and real-time monitoring of protein–protein interactions revealed that CRY-mediated periodic binding of CK2β to BMAL1 inhibits BMAL1-Ser90 phosphorylation by CK2α . The FAD binding domain of CRY1 , two C-terminal BMAL1 domains , and particularly BMAL1-Lys537 acetylation/deacetylation by CLOCK/SIRT1 , were shown to be critical for CRY-mediated BMAL1–CK2β binding . Reciprocally , BMAL1-Ser90 phosphoryla
Bile possesses antibacterial activity because bile salts disrupt membranes , denature proteins , and damage DNA . This study describes mechanisms employed by the bacterium Salmonella enterica to survive bile . Sublethal concentrations of the bile salt sodium deoxycholate ( DOC ) adapt Salmonella to survive lethal concentrations of bile . Adaptation seems to be associated to multiple changes in gene expression , which include upregulation of the RpoS-dependent general stress response and other stress responses . The crucial role of the general stress response in adaptation to bile is supported by the observation that RpoS− mutants are bile-sensitive . While adaptation to bile involves a response by the bacterial population , individual cells can become bile-resistant without adaptation: plating of a non-adapted S . enterica culture on medium containing a lethal concentration of bile yields bile-resistant colonies at frequencies between 10−6 and 10−7 per cell and generation . Fluctuation
The E . coli chromosome is compacted by segregation into 400–500 supercoiled domains by both active and passive mechanisms , for example , transcription and DNA-protein association . We find that prophage Mu is organized as a stable domain bounded by the proximal location of Mu termini L and R , which are 37 kbp apart on the Mu genome . Formation/maintenance of the Mu ‘domain’ configuration , reported by Cre-loxP recombination and 3C ( chromosome conformation capture ) , is dependent on a strong gyrase site ( SGS ) at the center of Mu , the Mu L end and MuB protein , and the E . coli nucleoid proteins IHF , Fis and HU . The Mu domain was observed at two different chromosomal locations tested . By contrast , prophage λ does not form an independent domain . The establishment/maintenance of the Mu domain was promoted by low-level transcription from two phage promoters , one of which was domain dependent . We propose that the domain confers transposition readiness to Mu by fostering topolo
Primaquine ( PQ ) is the only currently licensed antimalarial that prevents Plasmodium vivax ( Pv ) relapses . It also clears mature P . falciparum ( Pf ) gametocytes , thereby reducing post-treatment transmission . Randomized PQ treatment in a treatment-to-reinfection cohort in Papua New Guinean children permitted the study of Pv and Pf gametocyte carriage after radical cure and to investigate the contribution of Pv relapses . Children received radical cure with Chloroquine , Artemether-Lumefantrine plus either PQ or placebo . Blood samples were subsequently collected in 2-to 4-weekly intervals over 8 months . Gametocytes were detected by quantitative reverse transcription-PCR targeting pvs25 and pfs25 . PQ treatment reduced the incidence of Pv gametocytes by 73% , which was comparable to the effect of PQ on incidence of blood-stage infections . 92% of Pv and 79% of Pf gametocyte-positive infections were asymptomatic . Pv and to a lesser extent Pf gametocyte positivity and density wer
The Rho family of GTPases control actin organization during diverse cellular responses ( migration , cytokinesis and endocytosis ) . Although the primary members of this family ( RhoA , Rac and Cdc42 ) have different downstream effects on actin remodeling , the basic mechanism involves targeting to the plasma membrane and activation by GTP binding . Our hypothesis is that the details of GTPase cycling between membrane and cytosol are key to the differential upstream regulation of these biochemical switches . Accordingly , we developed a modeling framework to analyze experimental data for these systems . This analysis can reveal details of GDI-mediated cycling and help distinguish between GDI-dependent and -independent mechanisms , including vesicle trafficking and direct association-dissociation of GTPase with membrane molecules . Analysis of experimental data for Rac membrane cycling reveals that the lower apparent affinity of GDI for RacGTP compared to RacGDP can be fully explained b
Monitoring and evaluation ( M&E ) programmes are used to collect data which are required to assess the impact of current interventions on their progress towards achieving the World Health Organization ( WHO ) goals of morbidity control and elimination as a public health problem for schistosomiasis . Prevalence and intensity of infection data are typically collected from school-aged children ( SAC ) as they are relatively easy to sample and are thought to be most likely to be infected by schistosome parasites . However , adults are also likely to be infected . We use three different age-intensity profiles of infection for Schistosoma mansoni with low , moderate and high burdens of infection in adults to investigate how the age distribution of infection impacts the mathematical model generated recommendations of the preventive chemotherapy coverage levels required to achieve the WHO goals . We find that for moderate prevalence regions , regardless of the burden of infection in adults , t
Temporal lobe epilepsy ( TLE ) is a prevalent neurological disorder resulting in disruptive seizures . In the case of drug resistant epilepsy resective surgery is often considered . This is a procedure hampered by unpredictable success rates , with many patients continuing to have seizures even after surgery . In this study we apply a computational model of epilepsy to patient specific structural connectivity derived from diffusion tensor imaging ( DTI ) of 22 individuals with left TLE and 39 healthy controls . We validate the model by examining patient-control differences in simulated seizure onset time and network location . We then investigate the potential of the model for surgery prediction by performing in silico surgical resections , removing nodes from patient networks and comparing seizure likelihood post-surgery to pre-surgery simulations . We find that , first , patients tend to transit from non-epileptic to epileptic states more often than controls in the model . Second , r
Viral replication efficiency is in large part governed by the ability of viruses to counteract pro-apoptotic signals induced by infection of the host cell . Human herpesvirus 8 ( HHV-8 ) uses several strategies to block the host's innate antiviral defenses via interference with interferon and apoptotic signaling . Contributors include the four viral interferon regulatory factors ( vIRFs 1–4 ) , which function in dominant negative fashion to block cellular IRF activities in addition to targeting IRF signaling-induced proteins such as p53 and inhibiting other inducers of apoptosis such as TGFβ receptor-activated Smad transcription factors . Here we identify direct targeting by vIRF-1 of BH3-only pro-apoptotic Bcl-2 family member Bim , a key negative regulator of HHV-8 replication , to effect its inactivation via nuclear translocation . vIRF-1-mediated relocalization of Bim was identified in transfected cells , by both immunofluorescence assay and western analysis of fractionated cell ext
The healthy lung maintains a steady state of immune readiness to rapidly respond to injury from invaders . Integrins are important for setting the parameters of this resting state , particularly the epithelial-restricted αVβ6 integrin , which is upregulated during injury . Once expressed , αVβ6 moderates acute lung injury ( ALI ) through as yet undefined molecular mechanisms . We show that the upregulation of β6 during influenza infection is involved in disease pathogenesis . β6-deficient mice ( β6 KO ) have increased survival during influenza infection likely due to the limited viral spread into the alveolar spaces leading to reduced ALI . Although the β6 KO have morphologically normal lungs , they harbor constitutively activated lung CD11b+ alveolar macrophages ( AM ) and elevated type I IFN signaling activity , which we traced to the loss of β6-activated transforming growth factor-β ( TGF-β ) . Administration of exogenous TGF-β to β6 KO mice leads to reduced numbers of CD11b+ AMs , 
Leishmania ( Viannia ) braziliensis is the species most frequently implicated with cutaneous and mucosal leishmaniasis in the Americas; its diagnosis is based on the identification of amastigotes in lesions , which is limited by low parasite burden . Leishmanin Skin Test ( LST ) is a support tool for diagnosis , based on delayed type hypersensitivity responses to Leishmania antigens injected intradermally , used in endemic areas as a complement to diagnosis . A retrospective analysis of individuals evaluated for their first episode of tegumentary leishmaniasis at a reference center in Argentina during the period 2006–2015 was performed , with the goal of assessing its usefulness as a support tool in the diagnosis of leishmaniasis . Demographic , clinical and diagnostic work-up were analyzed in individuals with clinically compatible lesions , lesion`s smear and LST . A total of 733 cases that met the case definition were included in the analysis; 678 ( 93% ) localized cutaneous cases , 
Genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) have identified over 40 loci that affect risk of coronary artery disease ( CAD ) and the causal mechanisms at the majority of loci are unknown . Recent studies have suggested that many causal GWAS variants influence disease through altered transcriptional regulation in disease-relevant cell types . We explored changes in transcriptional regulation during a key pathophysiological event in CAD , the environmental lipid-induced transformation of macrophages to lipid-laden foam cells . We used a combination of open chromatin mapping with formaldehyde-assisted isolation of regulatory elements ( FAIRE-seq ) and enhancer and transcription factor mapping using chromatin immuno-precipitation ( ChIP-seq ) in primary human macrophages before and after exposure to atherogenic oxidized low-density lipoprotein ( oxLDL ) , with resultant foam cell formation . OxLDL-induced foam cell formation was associated with changes in a subset of open chromatin and active
As highly trachoma-endemic countries approach elimination , some districts will have prevalences of trachomatous inflammation–follicular in 1–9-year-olds ( TF1-9 ) of 5 . 0–9 . 9% . The World Health Organization ( WHO ) previously recommended that in such districts , TF prevalence be assessed in each sub-district ( groupings of at least three villages ) , with three rounds of azithromycin treatment offered to any sub-district in which TF≥10% . Given the large number of endemic districts worldwide and the human and financial resources required to conduct surveys , this recommendation may not be practical . In a group of 8 Malawi districts with baseline TF prevalences of 5 . 0–9 . 9% , the Malawi Ministry of Health administered one round of azithromycin mass treatment , to the whole of each district , achieving mean coverage of ~80% . Here , we report impact surveys conducted after that treatment . We undertook population-based trachoma surveys in 18 evaluation units of the 8 treated dis
Nucleotide-binding domain leucine-rich repeat ( NLR ) protein complexes sense infections and trigger robust immune responses in plants and humans . Activation of plant NLR resistance ( R ) proteins by pathogen effectors launches convergent immune responses , including programmed cell death ( PCD ) , reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production and transcriptional reprogramming with elusive mechanisms . Functional genomic and biochemical genetic screens identified six closely related Arabidopsis Ca2+-dependent protein kinases ( CPKs ) in mediating bifurcate immune responses activated by NLR proteins , RPS2 and RPM1 . The dynamics of differential CPK1/2 activation by pathogen effectors controls the onset of cell death . Sustained CPK4/5/6/11 activation directly phosphorylates a specific subgroup of WRKY transcription factors , WRKY8/28/48 , to synergistically regulate transcriptional reprogramming crucial for NLR-dependent restriction of pathogen growth , whereas CPK1/2/4/11 phosphorylate 
Much of the developing world , particularly sub-Saharan Africa , exhibits high levels of morbidity and mortality associated with infectious diseases . The incidence of Schistosoma sp . —which are neglected tropical diseases exposing and infecting more than 500 and 200 million individuals in 77 countries , respectively—is rising because of 1 ) numerous irrigation and hydro-electric projects , 2 ) steady shifts from nomadic to sedentary existence , and 3 ) ineffective control programs . Notwithstanding the colossal scope of these parasitic infections , less than 0 . 5% of Schistosoma sp . investigations have attempted to predict their spatial and or temporal distributions . Undoubtedly , public health programs in developing countries could benefit from parsimonious forecasting and early warning systems to enhance management of these parasitic diseases . In this longitudinal retrospective ( 01/1996–06/2004 ) investigation , the Schistosoma haematobium time-series for the district of Niono
Generally , the antagonism between host restriction factors and viral countermeasures decides on cellular permissiveness or resistance to virus infection . Human cytomegalovirus ( HCMV ) has evolved an additional level of self-imposed restriction by the viral tegument protein pp150 . Depending on a cyclin A-binding motif , pp150 prevents the onset of viral gene expression in the S/G2 cell cycle phase of otherwise fully permissive cells . Here we address the physiological relevance of this restriction during productive HCMV infection by employing a cyclin A-binding deficient pp150 mutant virus . One consequence of unrestricted viral gene expression in S/G2 was the induction of a G2/M arrest . G2-arrested but not mitotic cells supported viral replication . Cyclin A destabilization by the viral gene product pUL21a was required to maintain the virus-permissive G2-arrest . An HCMV double-point mutant where both pp150 and pUL21a are disabled in cyclin A interaction forced mitotic entry of th
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease that results in progressive degeneration of motor neurons , ultimately leading to paralysis and death . Approximately 10% of ALS cases are familial , with the remaining 90% of cases being sporadic . Genetic studies in familial cases of ALS have been extremely informative in determining the causative mutations behind ALS , especially as the same mutations identified in familial ALS can also cause sporadic disease . However , the cause of ALS in approximately 30% of familial cases and in the majority of sporadic cases remains unknown . Sporadic ALS cases represent an underutilized resource for genetic information about ALS; therefore , we undertook a targeted sequencing approach of 169 known and candidate ALS disease genes in 242 sporadic ALS cases and 129 matched controls to try to identify novel variants linked to ALS . We found a significant enrichment in novel and rare variants in cases versus controls ,
Currently , our understanding of mechanisms underlying cell-mediated immunity and particularly of mechanisms that promote robust T cell memory to respiratory viruses is incomplete . Interleukin ( IL ) -6 has recently re-emerged as an important regulator of T cell proliferation and survival . Since IL-6 is abundant following infection with influenza virus , we analyzed virus-specific T cell activity in both wild type and IL-6 deficient mice . Studies outlined herein highlight a novel role for IL-6 in the development of T cell memory to influenza virus . Specifically , we find that CD4+ but not CD8+ T cell memory is critically dependent upon IL-6 . This effect of IL-6 includes its ability to suppress CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells ( Treg ) . We demonstrate that influenza-induced IL-6 limits the activity of virus-specific Tregs , thereby facilitating the activity of virus-specific memory CD4+ T cells . These experiments reveal a critical role for IL-6 in ensuring , within the timeframe of a
Cytosine-5 methyltransferases of the Dnmt2 family function as DNA and tRNA methyltransferases . Insight into the role and biological significance of Dnmt2 is greatly hampered by a lack of knowledge about its protein interactions . In this report , we address the subject of protein interaction by identifying enolase through a yeast two-hybrid screen as a Dnmt2-binding protein . Enolase , which is known to catalyze the conversion of 2-phosphoglycerate ( 2-PG ) to phosphoenolpyruvate ( PEP ) , was shown to have both a cytoplasmatic and a nuclear localization in the parasite Entamoeba histolytica . We discovered that enolase acts as a Dnmt2 inhibitor . This unexpected inhibitory activity was antagonized by 2-PG , which suggests that glucose metabolism controls the non-glycolytic function of enolase . Interestingly , glucose starvation drives enolase to accumulate within the nucleus , which in turn leads to the formation of additional enolase-E . histolytica DNMT2 homolog ( Ehmeth ) complex
Mosquito borne pathogens are transmitted to humans via saliva during blood feeding . Mosquito saliva is a complex concoction of many secretory factors that modulate the feeding foci to enhance pathogen infection and establishment . Multiple salivary proteins/factors have been identified/characterized that enhance pathogen infection . Here , we describe , for the first time , the identification of exogenous microRNAs from mosquito saliva . MicroRNAs are short , 18–24 nucleotide , non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression , and are generally intracellular . However , circulating miRNAs have been described from serum and saliva of humans . Exogenous miRNAs have not been reported from hematophagous arthropod saliva . We sought to identify miRNAs in the mosquito saliva and their role in Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) infection . Next generation sequencing was utilized to identify 103 exogenous miRNAs in mosquito saliva of which 31 miRNAs were previously unidentified and were designated nov
Mitochondria contain an independently maintained genome that encodes several proteins required for cellular respiration . Deletions in the mitochondrial genome have been identified that cause several maternally inherited diseases and are associated with certain cancers and neurological disorders . The majority of these deletions in human cells are flanked by short , repetitive sequences , suggesting that these deletions may result from recombination events . Our current understanding of the maintenance and repair of mtDNA is quite limited compared to our understanding of similar events in the nucleus . Many nuclear DNA repair proteins are now known to also localize to mitochondria , but their function and the mechanism of their action remain largely unknown . This study investigated the contribution of the nuclear double-strand break repair ( DSBR ) proteins Rad51p , Rad52p and Rad59p in mtDNA repair . We have determined that both Rad51p and Rad59p are localized to the matrix of the mi
Rheumatic heart disease ( RHD ) poses a major disease burden among disadvantaged populations globally . It results from acute rheumatic fever ( ARF ) , a complication of Group A Streptococcal ( GAS ) infection . These conditions are acknowledged as diseases of poverty , however the role of specific social and environmental factors in GAS infection and progression to ARF/RHD is not well understood . The aim of this systematic review was to determine the association between social determinants of health and GAS infection , ARF and RHD , and the effect of interventions targeting these . We conducted a systematic literature review using PubMed , the Cochrane Library and Embase . Observational and experimental studies that measured: crowding , dwelling characteristics , education , employment , income , nutrition , or socioeconomic status and the relationship with GAS infection , ARF or RHD were included . Findings for each factor were assessed against the Bradford Hill criteria for evidenc
Even a single mutation can cause a marked change in a protein's properties . When the mutant protein functions within a network , complex phenotypes may emerge that are not intrinsic properties of the protein itself . Network architectures that enable such dramatic changes in function from a few mutations remain relatively uncharacterized . We describe a remarkable example of this versatility in the well-studied PhoQ/PhoP bacterial signaling network , which has an architecture found in many two-component systems . We found that a single point mutation that abolishes the phosphatase activity of the sensor kinase PhoQ results in a striking change in phenotype . The mutant responds to stimulus in a bistable manner , as opposed to the wild-type , which has a graded response . Mutant cells in on and off states have different morphologies , and their state is inherited over many generations . Interestingly , external conditions that repress signaling in the wild-type drive the mutant to the 
Primary Amoebic Meningoencephalitis ( PAM ) is caused by Naegleria fowleri , a free-living amoeba that occasionally infects humans . While considered “rare” ( but likely underreported ) the high mortality rate and lack of established success in treatment makes PAM a particularly devastating infection . In the absence of economic inducements to invest in development of anti-PAM drugs by the pharmaceutical industry , anti-PAM drug discovery largely relies on drug ‘repurposing’—a cost effective strategy to apply known drugs for treatment of rare or neglected diseases . Similar to fungi , N . fowleri has an essential requirement for ergosterol , a building block of plasma and cell membranes . Disruption of sterol biosynthesis by small-molecule inhibitors is a validated interventional strategy against fungal pathogens of medical and agricultural importance . The N . fowleri genome encodes the sterol 14-demethylase ( CYP51 ) target sharing ~35% sequence identity to fungal orthologues . The s
There is currently no vaccine against parasitic nematodes and the knowledge on the mechanisms by which protective immunity against this class of parasites is achieved is continuously expanding . Nematode parasites trigger a host protective type 2 immune response via interleukin-4 receptor alpha ( IL-4Rα ) . Despite this central role , it is not known whether IL-4Rα has a role in maintaining host type 2 immune responses following polarization . To determine the role of IL-4Rα after polarization , we used a recently established strain of rosaCreERT2-/+IL-4Rα-/Lox mice where il4rα gene deletion can be temporally controlled . We show that sustained expression of IL-4Rα is required for the maintenance of type 2 immune responses and protective immunity following interruption after polarization with Nippostrongylus brasiliensis primary infection . Moreover , we show by temporal deletion of IL-4Rα prior to secondary infection with N . brasiliensis that signaling via this receptor drives more e
As humans move and alter habitats , they change the disease risk for themselves , their commensal animals and wildlife . Bartonella bacteria are prevalent in mammals and cause numerous human infections . Understanding how this genus has evolved and switched hosts in the past can reveal how current patterns were established and identify potential mechanisms for future cross-species transmission . We analyzed patterns of Bartonella transmission and likely sources of spillover using the largest collection of Bartonella gltA genotypes assembled , including 67 new genotypes . This pathogenic genus likely originated as an environmental bacterium and insect commensal before infecting mammals . Rodents and domestic animals serve as the reservoirs or at least key proximate host for most Bartonella genotypes in humans . We also find evidence of exchange of Bartonella between phylogenetically distant domestic animals and wildlife , likely due to increased contact . Care should be taken to avoid c
The long noncoding MALAT1 RNA is upregulated in cancer tissues and its elevated expression is associated with hyper-proliferation , but the underlying mechanism is poorly understood . We demonstrate that MALAT1 levels are regulated during normal cell cycle progression . Genome-wide transcriptome analyses in normal human diploid fibroblasts reveal that MALAT1 modulates the expression of cell cycle genes and is required for G1/S and mitotic progression . Depletion of MALAT1 leads to activation of p53 and its target genes . The cell cycle defects observed in MALAT1-depleted cells are sensitive to p53 levels , indicating that p53 is a major downstream mediator of MALAT1 activity . Furthermore , MALAT1-depleted cells display reduced expression of B-MYB ( Mybl2 ) , an oncogenic transcription factor involved in G2/M progression , due to altered binding of splicing factors on B-MYB pre-mRNA and aberrant alternative splicing . In human cells , MALAT1 promotes cellular proliferation by modulatin
Juvenile hormone ( JH ) , a sesquiterpenoid produced by the corpora allata , coordinates insect growth , metamorphosis , and reproduction . While JH action for the repression of larval metamorphosis has been well studied , the molecular basis of JH in promoting adult reproduction has not been fully elucidated . Methoprene-tolerant ( Met ) , the JH receptor , has been recently shown to mediate JH action during metamorphosis as well as in vitellogenesis , but again , the precise mechanism underlying the latter has been lacking . We have now demonstrated using Met RNAi to phenocopy a JH-deprived condition in migratory locusts , that JH stimulates DNA replication and increases ploidy in preparation for vitellogenesis . Mcm4 and Mcm7 , two genes in the DNA replication pathway were expressed in the presence of JH and Met . Depletion of Mcm4 or Mcm7 inhibited de novo DNA synthesis and polyploidization , and resulted in the substantial reduction of vitellogenin mRNA levels as well as severely 
While prednisolone is commonly used to treat recent nerve function impairment ( NFI ) in leprosy patients , the optimal treatment duration has not yet been established . In this “Treatment of Early Neuropathy in Leprosy” ( TENLEP ) trial , we evaluated whether a 32-week prednisolone course is more effective than a 20-week course in restoring and improving nerve function . In this multi-centre , triple-blind , randomized controlled trial , leprosy patients who had recently developed clinical NFI ( <6 months ) were allocated to a prednisolone treatment regimen of either 20 weeks or 32 weeks . Prednisolone was started at either 45 or 60 mg/day , depending on the patient’s body weight , and was then tapered . Throughout follow up , NFI was assessed by voluntary muscle testing and monofilament testing . The primary outcome was the proportion of patients with improved or restored nerve function at week 78 . As secondary outcomes , we analysed improvements between baseline and week 78 on the 
Male Rocky Mountain elk ( Cervus elaphus nelsoni ) produce loud and high fundamental frequency bugles during the mating season , in contrast to the male European Red Deer ( Cervus elaphus scoticus ) who produces loud and low fundamental frequency roaring calls . A critical step in understanding vocal communication is to relate sound complexity to anatomy and physiology in a causal manner . Experimentation at the sound source , often difficult in vivo in mammals , is simulated here by a finite element model of the larynx and a wave propagation model of the vocal tract , both based on the morphology and biomechanics of the elk . The model can produce a wide range of fundamental frequencies . Low fundamental frequencies require low vocal fold strain , but large lung pressure and large glottal flow if sound intensity level is to exceed 70 dB at 10 m distance . A high-frequency bugle requires both large muscular effort ( to strain the vocal ligament ) and high lung pressure ( to overcome ph
Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by high-throughput sequencing ( ChIP-seq ) is rapidly replacing chromatin immunoprecipitation combined with genome-wide tiling array analysis ( ChIP-chip ) as the preferred approach for mapping transcription-factor binding sites and chromatin modifications . The state of the art for analyzing ChIP-seq data relies on using only reads that map uniquely to a relevant reference genome ( uni-reads ) . This can lead to the omission of up to 30% of alignable reads . We describe a general approach for utilizing reads that map to multiple locations on the reference genome ( multi-reads ) . Our approach is based on allocating multi-reads as fractional counts using a weighted alignment scheme . Using human STAT1 and mouse GATA1 ChIP-seq datasets , we illustrate that incorporation of multi-reads significantly increases sequencing depths , leads to detection of novel peaks that are not otherwise identifiable with uni-reads , and improves detection of peaks in 
The control or elimination of neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) has targets defined by the WHO for 2020 , reinforced by the 2012 London Declaration . We estimated the economic impact to individuals of meeting these targets for human African trypanosomiasis , leprosy , visceral leishmaniasis and Chagas disease , NTDs controlled or eliminated by innovative and intensified disease management ( IDM ) . A systematic literature review identified information on productivity loss and out-of-pocket payments ( OPPs ) related to these NTDs , which were combined with projections of the number of people suffering from each NTD , country and year for 2011–2020 and 2021–2030 . The ideal scenario in which the WHO’s 2020 targets are met was compared with a counterfactual scenario that assumed the situation of 1990 stayed unaltered . Economic benefit equaled the difference between the two scenarios . Values are reported in 2005 US$ , purchasing power parity-adjusted , discounted at 3% per annum from 
The notion that neurons with higher selectivity carry more information about external sensory inputs is widely accepted in neuroscience . High-selectivity neurons respond to a narrow range of sensory inputs , and thus would be considered highly informative by rejecting a large proportion of possible inputs . In auditory cortex , neuronal responses are less selective immediately after the onset of a sound and then become highly selective in the following sustained response epoch . These 2 temporal response epochs have thus been interpreted to encode first the presence and then the content of a sound input . Contrary to predictions from that prevailing theory , however , we found that the neural population conveys similar information about sound input across the 2 epochs in spite of the neuronal selectivity differences . The amount of information encoded turns out to be almost completely dependent upon the total number of population spikes in the read-out window for this system . Moreove
During acute viral infections , clearance of the pathogen is followed by the contraction of the anti-viral T cell compartment . In contrast , T cell responses need to be maintained over a longer period of time during chronic viral infections in order to control viral replication and to avoid viral spreading . Much is known about inhibitory signals such as through PD-1 that limit T cell activity during chronic viral infection , but little is known about the stimulatory signals that allow maintenance of anti-viral T cells . Here , we show that the co-stimulatory molecule OX40 ( CD134 ) is critically required in the context of persistent LCMV clone 13 infection . Anti-viral T cells express high levels of OX40 in the presence of their cognate antigen and T cells lacking the OX40 receptor fail to accumulate sufficiently . Moreover , the emergence of T cell dependent germinal center responses and LCMV-specific antibodies are severely impaired . Consequently , OX40-deficient mice fail to cont
Examples of animals evolving similar traits despite the absence of that trait in the last common ancestor , such as the wing and camera-type lens eye in vertebrates and invertebrates , are called cases of convergent evolution . Instances of convergent evolution of locomotory patterns that quantitatively agree with the mechanically optimal solution are very rare . Here , we show that , with respect to a very diverse group of aquatic animals , a mechanically optimal method of swimming with elongated fins has evolved independently at least eight times in both vertebrate and invertebrate swimmers across three different phyla . Specifically , if we take the length of an undulation along an animal’s fin during swimming and divide it by the mean amplitude of undulations along the fin length , the result is consistently around twenty . We call this value the optimal specific wavelength ( OSW ) . We show that the OSW maximizes the force generated by the body , which also maximizes swimming spee
During development of the cerebral cortex , neural stem cells ( NSCs ) divide symmetrically to proliferate and asymmetrically to generate neurons . Although faithful segregation of mitotic chromosomes is critical for NSC divisions , its fundamental mechanism remains unclear . A class of evolutionarily conserved protein complexes , known as condensins , is thought to be central to chromosome assembly and segregation among eukaryotes . Here we report the first comprehensive genetic study of mammalian condensins , demonstrating that two different types of condensin complexes ( condensins I and II ) are both essential for NSC divisions and survival in mice . Simultaneous depletion of both condensins leads to severe defects in chromosome assembly and segregation , which in turn cause DNA damage and trigger p53-induced apoptosis . Individual depletions of condensins I and II lead to slower loss of NSCs compared to simultaneous depletion , but they display distinct mitotic defects: chromosome
Among more than 20 , 000 species of hermaphroditic trematodes , Schistosomatidae are unusual since they have evolved gonochorism . In schistosomes , sex is determined by a female heterogametic system , but phenotypic sexual dimorphism appears only after infection of the vertebrate definitive host . The completion of gonad maturation occurs even later , after pairing . To date , the molecular mechanisms that trigger the sexual differentiation in these species remain unknown , and in vivo studies on the developing schistosomulum stages are lacking . To study the molecular basis of sex determination and sexual differentiation in schistosomes , we investigated the whole transcriptome of the human parasite Schistosoma mansoni in a stage- and sex-comparative manner . We performed a RNA-seq on males and females for five developmental stages: cercariae larvae , three in vivo schistosomulum stages and adults . We detected 7 , 168 genes differentially expressed between sexes in at least one of t
Large-scale annotation efforts typically involve several experts who may disagree with each other . We propose an approach for modeling disagreements among experts that allows providing each annotation with a confidence value ( i . e . , the posterior probability that it is correct ) . Our approach allows computing certainty-level for individual annotations , given annotator-specific parameters estimated from data . We developed two probabilistic models for performing this analysis , compared these models using computer simulation , and tested each model's actual performance , based on a large data set generated by human annotators specifically for this study . We show that even in the worst-case scenario , when all annotators disagree , our approach allows us to significantly increase the probability of choosing the correct annotation . Along with this publication we make publicly available a corpus of 10 , 000 sentences annotated according to several cardinal dimensions that we have 
Andes virus ( ANDV ) and ANDV-like viruses are responsible for most hantavirus pulmonary syndrome ( HPS ) cases in South America . Recent studies in Chile indicate that passive transfer of convalescent human plasma shows promise as a possible treatment for HPS . Unfortunately , availability of convalescent plasma from survivors of this lethal disease is very limited . We are interested in exploring the concept of using DNA vaccine technology to produce antiviral biologics , including polyclonal neutralizing antibodies for use in humans . Geese produce IgY and an alternatively spliced form , IgYΔFc , that can be purified at high concentrations from egg yolks . IgY lacks the properties of mammalian Fc that make antibodies produced in horses , sheep , and rabbits reactogenic in humans . Geese were vaccinated with an ANDV DNA vaccine encoding the virus envelope glycoproteins . All geese developed high-titer neutralizing antibodies after the second vaccination , and maintained high-levels o
Changes in genomic DNA methylation patterns are generally assumed to play an important role in the etiology of human cancers . The Dnmt3a enzyme is required for the establishment of normal methylation patterns , and mutations in Dnmt3a have been described in leukemias . Deletion of Dnmt3a in a K-ras–dependent mouse lung cancer model has been shown to promote tumor progression , which suggested that the enzyme might suppress tumor development by stabilizing DNA methylation patterns . We have used whole-genome bisulfite sequencing to comprehensively characterize the methylomes from Dnmt3a wildtype and Dnmt3a-deficient mouse lung tumors . Our results show that profound global methylation changes can occur in K-ras–induced lung cancer . Dnmt3a wild-type tumors were characterized by large hypomethylated domains that correspond to nuclear lamina-associated domains . In contrast , Dnmt3a-deficient tumors showed a uniformly hypomethylated genome . Further data analysis revealed that Dnmt3a is 
Time-locked sequences of neural activity can be found throughout the vertebrate forebrain in various species and behavioral contexts . From “time cells” in the hippocampus of rodents to cortical activity controlling movement , temporal sequence generation is integral to many forms of learned behavior . However , the mechanisms underlying sequence generation are not well known . Here , we describe a spatial and temporal organization of the songbird premotor cortical microcircuit that supports sparse sequences of neural activity . Multi-channel electrophysiology and calcium imaging reveal that neural activity in premotor cortex is correlated with a length scale of 100 µm . Within this length scale , basal-ganglia–projecting excitatory neurons , on average , fire at a specific phase of a local 30 Hz network rhythm . These results show that premotor cortical activity is inhomogeneous in time and space , and that a mesoscopic dynamical pattern underlies the generation of the neural sequence
Evolutionarily conserved mechanisms that control aging are predicted to have prereproductive functions in order to be subject to natural selection . Genes that are essential for growth and development are highly conserved in evolution , but their role in longevity has not previously been assessed . We screened 2 , 700 genes essential for Caenorhabditis elegans development and identified 64 genes that extend lifespan when inactivated postdevelopmentally . These candidate lifespan regulators are highly conserved from yeast to humans . Classification of the candidate lifespan regulators into functional groups identified the expected insulin and metabolic pathways but also revealed enrichment for translation , RNA , and chromatin factors . Many of these essential gene inactivations extend lifespan as much as the strongest known regulators of aging . Early gene inactivations of these essential genes caused growth arrest at larval stages , and some of these arrested animals live much longer 
The first critical stage in salamander or teleost appendage regeneration is creation of a specialized epidermis that instructs growth from underlying stump tissue . Here , we performed a forward genetic screen for mutations that impair this process in amputated zebrafish fins . Positional cloning and complementation assays identified a temperature-sensitive allele of the ECM component laminin beta 1a ( lamb1a ) that blocks fin regeneration . lamb1a , but not its paralog lamb1b , is sharply induced in a subset of epithelial cells after fin amputation , where it is required to establish and maintain a polarized basal epithelial cell layer . These events facilitate expression of the morphogenetic factors shha and lef1 , basolateral positioning of phosphorylated Igf1r , patterning of new osteoblasts , and regeneration of bone . By contrast , lamb1a function is dispensable for juvenile body growth , homeostatic adult tissue maintenance , repair of split fins , or renewal of genetically abla
Approaches based on linear mixed models ( LMMs ) have recently gained popularity for modelling population substructure and relatedness in genome-wide association studies . In the last few years , a bewildering variety of different LMM methods/software packages have been developed , but it is not always clear how ( or indeed whether ) any newly-proposed method differs from previously-proposed implementations . Here we compare the performance of several LMM approaches ( and software implementations , including EMMAX , GenABEL , FaST-LMM , Mendel , GEMMA and MMM ) via their application to a genome-wide association study of visceral leishmaniasis in 348 Brazilian families comprising 3626 individuals ( 1972 genotyped ) . The implementations differ in precise details of methodology implemented and through various user-chosen options such as the method and number of SNPs used to estimate the kinship ( relatedness ) matrix . We investigate sensitivity to these choices and the success ( or othe
The development of new drugs against Chagas disease is a priority since the currently available medicines have toxic effects , partial efficacy and are targeted against the acute phase of disease . At present , there is no drug to treat the chronic stage . In this study , we have optimized a whole cell-based assay for high throughput screening of compounds that inhibit infection of mammalian cells by Trypanosoma cruzi trypomastigotes . A 2000-compound chemical library was screened using a recombinant T . cruzi ( Tulahuen strain ) expressing β-galactosidase . Three hits were selected for their high activity against T . cruzi and low toxicity to host cells in vitro: PCH1 , NT1 and CX1 ( IC50: 54 , 190 and 23 nM , respectively ) . Each of these three compounds presents a different mechanism of action on intracellular proliferation of T . cruzi amastigotes . CX1 shows strong trypanocidal activity , an essential characteristic for the development of drugs against the chronic stage of Chagas
Currently , molecular xenomonitoring efforts for lymphatic filariasis rely on PCR or real-time PCR-based detection of Brugia malayi , Brugia timori and Wuchereria bancrofti in mosquito vectors . Most commonly , extraction of DNA from mosquitoes is performed using silica column-based technologies . However , such extractions are both time consuming and costly , and the diagnostic testing which follows typically requires expensive thermal cyclers or real-time PCR instruments . These expenses present significant challenges for laboratories in many endemic areas . Accordingly , in such locations , there exists a need for inexpensive , equipment-minimizing diagnostic options that can be transported to the field and implemented in minimal resource settings . Here we present a novel diagnostic approach for molecular xenomonitoring of filarial parasites in mosquitoes that uses a rapid , NaOH-based DNA extraction methodology coupled with a portable , battery powered PCR platform and a test stri
Elastomeric proteins have evolved independently multiple times through evolution . Produced as monomers , they self-assemble into polymeric structures that impart properties of stretch and recoil . They are composed of an alternating domain architecture of elastomeric domains interspersed with cross-linking elements . While the former provide the elasticity as well as help drive the assembly process , the latter serve to stabilise the polymer . Changes in the number and arrangement of the elastomeric and cross-linking regions have been shown to significantly impact their assembly and mechanical properties . However , to date , such studies are relatively limited . Here we present a theoretical study that examines the impact of domain architecture on polymer assembly and integrity . At the core of this study is a novel simulation environment that uses a model of diffusion limited aggregation to simulate the self-assembly of rod-like particles with alternating domain architectures . Appl
Ebolaviruses , highly lethal zoonotic pathogens , possess longer genomes than most other non-segmented negative-strand RNA viruses due in part to long 5′ and 3′ untranslated regions ( UTRs ) present in the seven viral transcriptional units . To date , specific functions have not been assigned to these UTRs . With reporter assays , we demonstrated that the Zaire ebolavirus ( EBOV ) 5′-UTRs lack internal ribosomal entry site function . However , the 5′-UTRs do differentially regulate cap-dependent translation when placed upstream of a GFP reporter gene . Most dramatically , the 5′-UTR derived from the viral polymerase ( L ) mRNA strongly suppressed translation of GFP compared to a β-actin 5′-UTR . The L 5′-UTR is one of four viral genes to possess upstream AUGs ( uAUGs ) , and ablation of each uAUG enhanced translation of the primary ORF ( pORF ) , most dramatically in the case of the L 5′-UTR . The L uAUG was sufficient to initiate translation , is surrounded by a “weak” Kozak sequence 
Genome instability plays a key role in multiple biological processes and diseases , including cancer . Genome-wide mapping of DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) is important for understanding both chromosomal architecture and specific chromosomal regions at DSBs . We developed a method for precise genome-wide mapping of blunt-ended DSBs in human chromosomes , and observed non-random fragmentation and DSB hot spots . These hot spots are scattered along chromosomes and delimit protected 50–250 kb DNA domains . We found that about 30% of the domains ( denoted forum domains ) possess coordinately expressed genes and that PARP1 and HNRNPA2B1 specifically bind DNA sequences at the forum domain termini . Thus , our data suggest a novel type of gene regulation: a coordinated transcription or silencing of gene clusters delimited by DSB hot spots as well as PARP1 and HNRNPa2B1 binding sites . 
We studied infection by Trypanosomatidae in bats captured in two areas with different degradation levels in the Atlantic Forest of Rio de Janeiro state: Reserva Ecológica de Guapiaçu ( REGUA ) and Estação Fiocruz Mata Atlântica ( EFMA ) . Furthermore , we evaluated whether the diversity of trypanosomatids changes according to bat diversity and the different levels of preservation in the region . The results showed no influence of the level of preservation on bat species richness ( 15 and 14 species , respectively ) , with similar chiropterofauna and higher abundance of two common fruit-eating bat species in the tropics: Carollia perspicillata and Artibeus lituratus . Of the 181 bat specimens analyzed by LIT/Schneider hemoculture , we detected 24 infected individuals ( 13% ) , including one positive Sturnira lilium individual that was also positive by fresh blood examination . Molecular characterization using nested PCR targeting the 18 SSU rRNA-encoding gene fragment showed similar try
Ticks are the most common arthropod vectors of both human and animal diseases in Europe , and the Ixodes ricinus tick species is able to transmit a large number of bacteria , viruses and parasites . Ticks may also be co-infected with several pathogens , with a subsequent high likelihood of co-transmission to humans or animals . However few data exist regarding co-infection prevalences , and these studies only focus on certain well-known pathogens . In addition to pathogens , ticks also carry symbionts that may play important roles in tick biology , and could interfere with pathogen maintenance and transmission . In this study we evaluated the prevalence of 38 pathogens and four symbionts and their co-infection levels as well as possible interactions between pathogens , or between pathogens and symbionts . A total of 267 Ixodes ricinus female specimens were collected in the French Ardennes and analyzed by high-throughput real-time PCR for the presence of 37 pathogens ( bacteria and para
Hematopoietic stem cell lineage choices are decided by genetic networks that are turned ON/OFF in a switch-like manner . However , prior to lineage commitment , genes are primed at low expression levels . Understanding the underlying molecular circuitry in terms of how it governs both a primed state and , at the other extreme , a committed state is of relevance not only to hematopoiesis but also to developmental systems in general . We develop a computational model for the hematopoietic erythroid-myeloid lineage decision , which is determined by a genetic switch involving the genes PU . 1 and GATA-1 . Dynamical models based upon known interactions between these master genes , such as mutual antagonism and autoregulation , fail to make the system bistable , a desired feature for robust lineage determination . We therefore suggest a new mechanism involving a cofactor that is regulated as well as recruited by one of the master genes to bind to the antagonistic partner that is necessary fo
Enterococcus faecalis is an opportunistic pathogen with an intrinsically high resistance to lysozyme , a key effector of the innate immune system . This high level of resistance requires a complex network of transcriptional regulators and several genes ( oatA , pgdA , dltA and sigV ) acting synergistically to inhibit both the enzymatic and cationic antimicrobial peptide activities of lysozyme . We sought to identify novel genes modulating E . faecalis resistance to lysozyme . Random transposon mutagenesis carried out in the quadruple oatA/pgdA/dltA/sigV mutant led to the identification of several independent insertions clustered on the chromosome . These mutations were located in a locus referred to as the enterococcal polysaccharide antigen ( EPA ) variable region located downstream of the highly conserved epaA-epaR genes proposed to encode a core synthetic machinery . The epa variable region was previously proposed to be responsible for EPA decorations , but the role of this locus re
Gene expression is a combinatorial function of genetic/epigenetic factors such as copy number variation ( CNV ) , DNA methylation ( DM ) , transcription factors ( TF ) occupancy , and microRNA ( miRNA ) post-transcriptional regulation . At the maturity of microarray/sequencing technologies , large amounts of data measuring the genome-wide signals of those factors became available from Encyclopedia of DNA Elements ( ENCODE ) and The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) . However , there is a lack of an integrative model to take full advantage of these rich yet heterogeneous data . To this end , we developed RACER ( Regression Analysis of Combined Expression Regulation ) , which fits the mRNA expression as response using as explanatory variables , the TF data from ENCODE , and CNV , DM , miRNA expression signals from TCGA . Briefly , RACER first infers the sample-specific regulatory activities by TFs and miRNAs , which are then used as inputs to infer specific TF/miRNA-gene interactions . Such a
Even though the fungal kingdom contains more than 3 million species , little is known about the biological roles of RNA silencing in fungi . The Colletotrichum genus comprises fungal species that are pathogenic for a wide range of crop species worldwide . To investigate the role of RNA silencing in the ascomycete fungus Colletotrichum higginsianum , knock-out mutants affecting genes for three RNA-dependent RNA polymerase ( RDR ) , two Dicer-like ( DCL ) , and two Argonaute ( AGO ) proteins were generated by targeted gene replacement . No effects were observed on vegetative growth for any mutant strain when grown on complex or minimal media . However , Δdcl1 , Δdcl1Δdcl2 double mutant , and Δago1 strains showed severe defects in conidiation and conidia morphology . Total RNA transcripts and small RNA populations were analyzed in parental and mutant strains . The greatest effects on both RNA populations was observed in the Δdcl1 , Δdcl1Δdcl2 , and Δago1 strains , in which a previously un
Three waves of H2AX phosphorylation ( γH2AX ) have been observed in male meiotic prophase I: the first is ATM-dependent and occurs at leptonema , while the second and third are ATR-dependent , occuring at zygonema and pachynema , respectively . The third wave of H2AX phosphorylation marks and silences unsynapsed chromosomes . Little is known about H2AX phosphorylation expands to chromatin-wide regions in spermatocytes . Here , we report that histone acetyltransferase ( HAT ) MOF is involved in all three waves of H2AX phosphorylation expansion . Germ cell-specific deletion of Mof in spermatocytes by Stra8-Cre ( Mof cKO ) caused global loss of H4K16ac . In leptotene and zygotene spermatocytes of cKO mice , the γH2AX signals were observed only along the chromosomal axes , and chromatin-wide H2AX phosphorylation was lost . In almost 40% of early-mid pachytene spermatocytes from Mof cKO mice , γH2AX and MDC1 were detected along the unsynapsed axes of the sex chromosomes , but failed to expa
Alteration of early haematopoietic development is thought to be responsible for the onset of immature leukemias and lymphomas . We have previously demonstrated that TaxHTLV-1 interferes with ß-selection , an important checkpoint of early thymopoiesis , indicating that human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 ( HTLV-1 ) infection has the potential to perturb thymic human αβ T-cell development . To verify that inference and to clarify the impact of HTLV-1 infection on human T-cell development , we investigated the in vivo effects of HTLV-1 infection in a “Human Immune System” ( HIS ) Rag2-/-γc-/- mouse model . These mice were infected with HTLV-1 , at a time when the three main subpopulations of human thymocytes have been detected . In all but two inoculated mice , the HTLV-1 provirus was found integrated in thymocytes; the proviral load increased with the length of the infection period . In the HTLV-1-infected mice we observed alterations in human T-cell development , the extent of which corr
Schistosomiasis remains a major public health concern in Sudan , particularly Schistosoma haematobium infection . This study presents the disease-reduction outcomes of an integrated control program for schistosomiasis in Al Jabalain locality of White Nile State , Sudan from 2009 through 2011 . The total population of the project sites was 482 , 902 , and the major target group for intervention among them was 78 , 615 primary school students . For the cross-sectional study of the prevalence , urine and stool specimens were examined using the urine sedimentation method and the Kato cellophane thick smear method , respectively . To assess the impacts of health education for students and a drinking water supply facility at Al Hidaib village , questionnaire survey was done . The overall prevalence for S . haematobium and S . mansoni at baseline was 28 . 5% and 0 . 4% , respectively . At follow-up survey after 6–9 months post-treatment , the prevalence of S . haematobium infection was reduce
Paramyxoviruses are known to replicate in the cytoplasm and bud from the plasma membrane . Matrix is the major structural protein in paramyxoviruses that mediates viral assembly and budding . Curiously , the matrix proteins of a few paramyxoviruses have been found in the nucleus , although the biological function associated with this nuclear localization remains obscure . We report here that the nuclear-cytoplasmic trafficking of the Nipah virus matrix ( NiV-M ) protein and associated post-translational modification play a critical role in matrix-mediated virus budding . Nipah virus ( NiV ) is a highly pathogenic emerging paramyxovirus that causes fatal encephalitis in humans , and is classified as a Biosafety Level 4 ( BSL4 ) pathogen . During live NiV infection , NiV-M was first detected in the nucleus at early stages of infection before subsequent localization to the cytoplasm and the plasma membrane . Mutations in the putative bipartite nuclear localization signal ( NLS ) and the l
Viruses initiate infection by transferring their genetic material across a cellular membrane and into the appropriate compartment of the cell . The mechanisms by which animal viruses , especially nonenveloped viruses , deliver their genomes are only poorly understood . This is due in part to technical difficulties involved in direct visualization of viral gene delivery and to uncertainties in distinguishing productive and nonproductive pathways caused by the high particle-to–plaque forming unit ratio of most animal viruses . Here , we combine an imaging assay that simultaneously tracks the viral capsid and genome in live cells with an infectivity-based assay for RNA release to characterize the early events in the poliovirus ( PV ) infection . Effects on RNA genome delivery from inhibitors of cell trafficking pathways were probed systematically by both methods . Surprisingly , we observe that genome release by PV is highly efficient and rapid , and thus does not limit the overall infect
Dengue fever continues to be a major public health problem in Cambodia , with significant impact on children . Health education is a major means for prevention and control of the National Dengue Control Program ( NDCP ) , and is delivered to communities and in schools . Drawing on data collected in 2003–2004 as part of an ethnographic study conducted in eastern Cambodia , we explore the approaches used in health education and their effectiveness to control dengue . Community health education is provided through health centre outreach activities and campaigns of the NDCP , but is not systematically evaluated , is under-funded and delivered irregularly; school-based education is restricted in terms of time and lacks follow-up in terms of practical activities for prevention and control . As a result , adherence is partial . We suggest the need for sustained routine education for dengue prevention and control , and the need for approaches to ensure the translation of knowledge into practic
Filarial nematodes cause chronic and profoundly debilitating diseases in both humans and animals . Applications of novel technology are providing unprecedented opportunities to improve diagnosis and our understanding of the molecular basis for host-parasite interactions . As a first step , we investigated the presence of circulating miRNAs released by filarial nematodes into the host bloodstream . miRNA deep-sequencing combined with bioinformatics revealed over 200 mature miRNA sequences of potential nematode origin in Dirofilaria immitis-infected dog plasma in two independent analyses , and 21 in Onchocerca volvulus-infected human serum . Total RNA obtained from D . immitis-infected dog plasma was subjected to stem-loop RT-qPCR assays targeting two detected miRNA candidates , miR-71 and miR-34 . Additionally , Brugia pahangi-infected dog samples were included in the analysis , as these miRNAs were previously detected in extracts prepared from this species . The presence of miR-71 and 
Tyrosine kinases of the Src-family are large allosteric enzymes that play a key role in cellular signaling . Conversion of the kinase from an inactive to an active state is accompanied by substantial structural changes . Here , we construct a coarse-grained model of the catalytic domain incorporating experimental structures for the two stable states , and simulate the dynamics of conformational transitions in kinase activation . We explore the transition energy landscapes by constructing a structural network among clusters of conformations from the simulations . From the structural network , two major ensembles of pathways for the activation are identified . In the first transition pathway , we find a coordinated switching mechanism of interactions among the αC helix , the activation-loop , and the β strands in the N-lobe of the catalytic domain . In a second pathway , the conformational change is coupled to a partial unfolding of the N-lobe region of the catalytic domain . We also cha
The molecular mechanisms underlying lethality of F1 hybrids between diverged parents are one target of speciation research . Crosses between diploid and tetraploid individuals of the same genotype can result in F1 lethality , and this dosage-sensitive incompatibility plays a role in polyploid speciation . We have identified variation in F1 lethality in interploidy crosses of Arabidopsis thaliana and determined the genetic architecture of the maternally expressed variation via QTL mapping . A single large-effect QTL , DR . STRANGELOVE 1 ( DSL1 ) , was identified as well as two QTL with epistatic relationships to DSL1 . DSL1 affects the rate of postzygotic lethality via expression in the maternal sporophyte . Fine mapping placed DSL1 in an interval encoding the maternal effect transcription factor TTG2 . Maternal parents carrying loss-of-function mutations in TTG2 suppressed the F1 lethality caused by paternal excess interploidy crosses . The frequency of cellularization in the endosperm
Emerging bacterial zoonoses in bats and rodents remain relatively understudied . We conduct the first comparative host–pathogen coevolutionary analyses of bacterial pathogens in these hosts , using Bartonella spp . and Leptospira spp . as a model . We used published genetic data for 51 Bartonella genotypes from 24 bat species , 129 Bartonella from 38 rodents , and 26 Leptospira from 20 bats . We generated maximum likelihood and Bayesian phylogenies for hosts and bacteria , and tested for coevoutionary congruence using programs ParaFit , PACO , and Jane . Bartonella spp . and their bat hosts had a significant coevolutionary fit ( ParaFitGlobal = 1 . 9703 , P≤0 . 001; m2 global value = 7 . 3320 , P≤0 . 0001 ) . Bartonella spp . and rodent hosts also indicated strong overall patterns of cospeciation ( ParaFitGlobal = 102 . 4409 , P≤0 . 001; m2 global value = 86 . 532 , P≤0 . 0001 ) . In contrast , we were unable to reject independence of speciation events in Leptospira and bats ( ParaFitG
A fundamental issue in locomotion is to understand how muscle forcing produces apparently complex deformation kinematics leading to movement of animals like undulatory swimmers . The question of whether complicated muscle forcing is required to create the observed deformation kinematics is central to the understanding of how animals control movement . In this work , a forced damped oscillation framework is applied to a chain-link model for undulatory swimming to understand how forcing leads to deformation and movement . A unified understanding of swimming , caused by muscle contractions ( “active” swimming ) or by forces imparted by the surrounding fluid ( “passive” swimming ) , is obtained . We show that the forcing triggers the first few deformation modes of the body , which in turn cause the translational motion . We show that relatively simple forcing patterns can trigger seemingly complex deformation kinematics that lead to movement . For given muscle activation , the forcing freq
Genetic recombination between pathogens derived from humans and livestock has the potential to create novel pathogen strains , highlighted by the influenza pandemic H1N1/09 , which was derived from a re-assortment of swine , avian and human influenza A viruses . Here we investigated whether genetic recombination between subspecies of the protozoan parasite , Trypanosoma brucei , from humans and animals can generate new strains of human pathogen , T . b . rhodesiense ( Tbr ) responsible for sleeping sickness ( Human African Trypanosomiasis , HAT ) in East Africa . The trait of human infectivity in Tbr is conferred by a single gene , SRA , which is potentially transferable to the animal pathogen Tbb by sexual reproduction . We tracked the inheritance of SRA in crosses of Tbr and Tbb set up by co-transmitting genetically-engineered fluorescent parental trypanosome lines through tsetse flies . SRA was readily transferred into new genetic backgrounds by sexual reproduction between Tbr and T
Diabetes is caused by dysfunction to β-cells in the islets of Langerhans , disrupting insulin secretion and glucose homeostasis . Gap junction-mediated electrical coupling between β-cells in the islet plays a major role in coordinating a pulsatile secretory response at elevated glucose and suppressing insulin secretion at basal glucose . Previously , we demonstrated that a critical number of inexcitable cells can rapidly suppress the overall islet response , as a result of gap junction coupling . This was demonstrated in a murine model of Neonatal Diabetes Mellitus ( NDM ) involving expression of ATP-insensitive KATP channels , and by a multi-cellular computational model of islet electrical activity . Here we examined the mechanisms by which gap junction coupling contributes to islet dysfunction in NDM . We first verified the computational model against [Ca2+] and insulin secretion measurements in islets expressing ATP-insensitive KATP channels under different levels of gap junction co
Predicting the dynamic behavior of a large network from that of the composing modules is a central problem in systems and synthetic biology . Yet , this predictive ability is still largely missing because modules display context-dependent behavior . One cause of context-dependence is retroactivity , a phenomenon similar to loading that influences in non-trivial ways the dynamic performance of a module upon connection to other modules . Here , we establish an analysis framework for gene transcription networks that explicitly accounts for retroactivity . Specifically , a module's key properties are encoded by three retroactivity matrices: internal , scaling , and mixing retroactivity . All of them have a physical interpretation and can be computed from macroscopic parameters ( dissociation constants and promoter concentrations ) and from the modules' topology . The internal retroactivity quantifies the effect of intramodular connections on an isolated module's dynamics . The scaling and 
The pseudoautosomal region ( PAR ) is a short region of homology between the mammalian X and Y chromosomes , which has undergone rapid evolution . A crossover in the PAR is essential for the proper disjunction of X and Y chromosomes in male meiosis , and PAR deletion results in male sterility . This leads the human PAR with the obligatory crossover , PAR1 , to having an exceptionally high male crossover rate , which is 17-fold higher than the genome-wide average . However , the mechanism by which this obligatory crossover occurs remains unknown , as does the fine-scale positioning of crossovers across this region . Recent research in mice has suggested that crossovers in PAR may be mediated independently of the protein PRDM9 , which localises virtually all crossovers in the autosomes . To investigate recombination in this region , we construct the most fine-scale genetic map containing directly observed crossovers to date using African-American pedigrees . We leverage recombination rat
In proliferating myoblasts , muscle specific genes are silenced by epigenetic modifications at their promoters , including histone H3K9 methylation . Derepression of the promoter of the gene encoding the myogenic factor myogenin ( Myog ) is key for initiation of muscle differentiation . The mechanism of H3K9 demethylation at the Myog promoter is unclear , however . Here , we identify an isoform of the histone demethylase JMJD2A/KDM4A that lacks the N-terminal demethylase domain ( ΔN-JMJD2A ) . The amount of ΔN-JMJD2A increases during differentiation of C2C12 myoblasts into myotubes . Genome-wide expression profiling and exon-specific siRNA knockdown indicate that , in contrast to the full-length protein , ΔN-JMJD2A is necessary for myotube formation and muscle-specific gene expression . Moreover , ΔN-JMJD2A promotes MyoD-induced conversion of NIH3T3 cells into muscle cells . ChIP-on-chip analysis indicates that ΔN-JMJD2A binds to genes mainly involved in transcriptional control and tha
Of the three diseases targeted for eradication by WHO , two are so-called Neglected Tropical Diseases ( NTDs ) –guinea worm disease ( GWD ) and yaws . The Guinea Worm Eradication Programme ( GWEP ) is in its final stages , with only 25 reported in 2016 . However , global eradication still requires certification by WHO of the absence of transmission in all countries . We analyze the cost-effectiveness of the GWEP in the end game , when the number of cases is lower and the cost per case is higher than at any other time . Ours is the first economic evaluation of the GWEP since a World Bank study in 1997 . Using data from the GWEP , we estimate the cost of the implementation , pre-certification and certification stages . We model cost-effectiveness in the period 1986–2030 . We compare the GWEP to two alternative scenarios: doing nothing ( no intervention since 1986 ) and control ( only surveillance and outbreak response during 2016–2030 ) . We report the cost per case averted , cost per di
The carboxy-terminal domain of the BBK32 protein from Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto , termed BBK32-C , binds and inhibits the initiating serine protease of the human classical complement pathway , C1r . In this study we investigated the function of BBK32 orthologues of the Lyme-associated Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato complex , designated BAD16 from B . afzelii strain PGau and BGD19 from B . garinii strain IP90 . Our data show that B . afzelii BAD16-C exhibits BBK32-C-like activities in all assays tested , including high-affinity binding to purified C1r protease and C1 complex , and potent inhibition of the classical complement pathway . Recombinant B . garinii BGD19-C also bound C1 and C1r with high-affinity yet exhibited significantly reduced in vitro complement inhibitory activities relative to BBK32-C or BAD16-C . Interestingly , natively produced BGD19 weakly recognized C1r relative to BBK32 and BAD16 and , unlike these proteins , BGD19 did not confer significant protection
The opportunistic human fungal pathogen , Candida albicans , undergoes morphological and transcriptional adaptation in the switch from commensalism to pathogenicity . Although previous gene-knockout studies have identified many factors involved in this transformation , it remains unclear how these factors are regulated to coordinate the switch . Investigating morphogenetic control by post-translational phosphorylation has generated important regulatory insights into this process , especially focusing on coordinated control by the cyclin-dependent kinase Cdc28 . Here we have identified the Fkh2 transcription factor as a regulatory target of both Cdc28 and the cell wall biosynthesis kinase Cbk1 , in a role distinct from its conserved function in cell cycle progression . In stationary phase yeast cells 2D gel electrophoresis shows that there is a diverse pool of Fkh2 phospho-isoforms . For a short window on hyphal induction , far before START in the cell cycle , the phosphorylation profil
The human pathogenic parasite Trypanosoma brucei possess both de novo and salvage routes for the biosynthesis of pyrimidine nucleotides . Consequently , they do not require salvageable pyrimidines for growth . Thymidine kinase ( TK ) catalyzes the formation of dTMP and dUMP and is one of several salvage enzymes that appear redundant to the de novo pathway . Surprisingly , we show through analysis of TK conditional null and RNAi cells that TK is essential for growth and for infectivity in a mouse model , and that a catalytically active enzyme is required for its function . Unlike humans , T . brucei and all other kinetoplastids lack dCMP deaminase ( DCTD ) , which provides an alternative route to dUMP formation . Ectopic expression of human DCTD resulted in full rescue of the RNAi growth phenotype and allowed for selection of viable TK null cells . Metabolite profiling by LC-MS/MS revealed a buildup of deoxypyrimidine nucleosides in TK depleted cells . Knockout of cytidine deaminase ( C
The initiation of translation is a fundamental and highly regulated process in gene expression . Translation initiation in prokaryotic systems usually requires interaction between the ribosome and an mRNA sequence upstream of the initiation codon , the so-called ribosome-binding site ( Shine-Dalgarno sequence ) . However , a large number of genes do not possess Shine-Dalgarno sequences , and it is unknown how start codon recognition occurs in these mRNAs . We have performed genome-wide searches in various groups of prokaryotes in order to identify sequence elements and/or RNA secondary structural motifs that could mediate translation initiation in mRNAs lacking Shine-Dalgarno sequences . We find that mRNAs without a Shine-Dalgarno sequence are generally less structured in their translation initiation region and show a minimum of mRNA folding at the start codon . Using reporter gene constructs in bacteria , we also provide experimental support for local RNA unfoldedness determining star
The skin disorder Post Kala-Azar Dermal Leishmaniasis ( PKDL ) occurs in up to 10% of patients treated for visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) in India . The pathogenesis of PKDL is not yet fully understood . Cases have been reported in India following therapy with most available treatments , but rarely in those treated with liposomal amphotericin B ( Ambisome ) . Between July 2007 and August 2012 with the support of the Rajendra Memorial Research Institute ( RMRI ) , Médecins Sans Frontières ( MSF ) supported a VL treatment programme in Bihar , India—an area highly endemic for Leishmania donovani—in which 8749 patients received 20 mg/kg intravenous Ambisome as first-line treatment . This study describes the characteristics of patients who returned to the MSF supported treatment programme with PKDL . Over a 5-year period , Ambisome was administered to 8749 patients with laboratory-confirmed VL ( clinical signs , rK39 positive , with/without parasite confirmation ) in four intravenous doses o
Prevention of Chagas disease depends mainly on control of the insect vectors that transmit infection . Unfortunately , the vectors have been resurgent in some areas . It is important to understand the dynamics of reinfestation where it occurs . Here we show how continuous- and discrete-time models fitted to patch-level infestation states can elucidate different aspects of re-establishment . Triatoma infestans , the main vector of Chagas disease , reinfested sites in three villages in northwest Argentina after community-wide insecticide spraying in October 1992 . Different methods of estimating the probabilities of bug establishment on each site were compared . The results confirmed previous results showing a 6-month time lag between detection of a new infestation and dispersal events . The analysis showed that more new bug populations become established from May to November than from November to May . This seasonal increase in bug establishment coincides with a seasonal increase in dis
Effects of polyomavirus SV40 microRNA on pathogenesis of viral infections in vivo are not known . Syrian golden hamsters are the small animal model for studies of SV40 . We report here effects of SV40 microRNA and influence of the structure of the regulatory region on dynamics of SV40 DNA levels in vivo . Outbred young adult hamsters were inoculated by the intracardiac route with 1×107 plaque-forming units of four different variants of SV40 . Infected animals were sacrificed from 3 to 270 days postinfection and viral DNA loads in different tissues determined by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction assays . All SV40 strains displayed frequent establishment of persistent infections and slow viral clearance . SV40 had a broad tissue tropism , with infected tissues including liver , kidney , spleen , lung , and brain . Liver and kidney contained higher viral DNA loads than other tissues; kidneys were the preferred site for long-term persistent infection although detectable viru
Genome-wide scans for positively selected genes ( PSGs ) in mammals have provided insight into the dynamics of genome evolution , the genetic basis of differences between species , and the functions of individual genes . However , previous scans have been limited in power and accuracy owing to small numbers of available genomes . Here we present the most comprehensive examination of mammalian PSGs to date , using the six high-coverage genome assemblies now available for eutherian mammals . The increased phylogenetic depth of this dataset results in substantially improved statistical power , and permits several new lineage- and clade-specific tests to be applied . Of ∼16 , 500 human genes with high-confidence orthologs in at least two other species , 400 genes showed significant evidence of positive selection ( FDR<0 . 05 ) , according to a standard likelihood ratio test . An additional 144 genes showed evidence of positive selection on particular lineages or clades . As in previous stu
Staphylococcus aureus is an opportunistic pathogen that colonizes the skin and mucosal surfaces of mammals . Persistent staphylococcal infections often involve surface-associated communities called biofilms . Here we report the discovery of a novel extracellular fibril structure that promotes S . aureus biofilm integrity . Biochemical and genetic analysis has revealed that these fibers have amyloid-like properties and consist of small peptides called phenol soluble modulins ( PSMs ) . Mutants unable to produce PSMs were susceptible to biofilm disassembly by matrix degrading enzymes and mechanical stress . Previous work has associated PSMs with biofilm disassembly , and we present data showing that soluble PSM peptides disperse biofilms while polymerized peptides do not . This work suggests the PSMs' aggregation into amyloid fibers modulates their biological activity and role in biofilms . 
Trypanosoma cruzi parasite , the causative agent of Chagas disease , infects about six million individuals in more than 20 countries . Monitoring parasite persistence in infected individuals is of utmost importance to develop and evaluate treatments to control the disease . Routine screening for infected human individuals is achieved by serological assays; PCR testing to monitor spontaneous or therapy-induced parasitological cure has limitations due to the low and fluctuating parasitic load in circulating blood . The aim of the present study is to evaluate a newly developed antibody profiling assay as an indirect method to assess parasite persistence based on waning of antibodies following spontaneous or therapy-induced clearance of the infection . We designed a multiplex serology assay , an array of fifteen optimized T . cruzi antigens , to evaluate antibody diversity in 1654 serum samples from chronic Chagas patients . One specific antibody response ( antibody 3 , Ab3 ) showed a stro
Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) is an arthritogenic alphavirus that acutely causes fever as well as severe joint and muscle pain . Chronic musculoskeletal pain persists in a substantial fraction of patients for months to years after the initial infection , yet we still have a poor understanding of what promotes chronic disease . While replicating virus has not been detected in joint-associated tissues of patients with persistent arthritis nor in various animal models at convalescent time points , viral RNA is detected months after acute infection . To identify the cells that might contribute to pathogenesis during this chronic phase , we developed a recombinant CHIKV that expresses Cre recombinase ( CHIKV-3ʹ-Cre ) . CHIKV-3ʹ-Cre replicated in myoblasts and fibroblasts , and it induced arthritis during the acute phase in mice . Importantly , it also induced chronic disease , including persistent viral RNA and chronic myositis and synovitis similar to wild-type virus . CHIKV-3ʹ-Cre infection
Recent studies have applied dimensionality reduction methods to understand how the multi-dimensional structure of neural population activity gives rise to brain function . It is unclear , however , how the results obtained from dimensionality reduction generalize to recordings with larger numbers of neurons and trials or how these results relate to the underlying network structure . We address these questions by applying factor analysis to recordings in the visual cortex of non-human primates and to spiking network models that self-generate irregular activity through a balance of excitation and inhibition . We compared the scaling trends of two key outputs of dimensionality reduction—shared dimensionality and percent shared variance—with neuron and trial count . We found that the scaling properties of networks with non-clustered and clustered connectivity differed , and that the in vivo recordings were more consistent with the clustered network . Furthermore , recordings from tens of n
Increasing evidence indicates that bacterial quorum sensing ( QS ) signals are important mediators of immunomodulation . However , whether microbes utilize these immunomodulatory signals to maintain infection remain unclear . Here , we show that the Pseudomonas aeruginosa QS-regulated molecule 2-amino acetophenone ( 2-AA ) modulates host immune responses in a manner that increases host ability to cope with this pathogen . Mice treated with 2-AA prior to infection had a 90% survival compared to 10% survival rate observed in the non-pretreated infected mice . Whilst 2-AA stimulation activates key innate immune response pathways involving mitogen-activated protein kinases ( MAPKs ) , nuclear factor ( NF ) -κB , and pro-inflammatory cytokines , it attenuates immune response activation upon pretreatment , most likely by upregulating anti-inflammatory cytokines . 2-AA host pretreatment is characterized by a transcriptionally regulated block of c-JUN N-terminal kinase ( JNK ) and NF-κB activa
Mammalian genomes comprise many active and fossilized retroelements . The obligate requirement for retroelement integration affords host genomes an opportunity to ‘domesticate’ retroelement genes for their own purpose , leading to important innovations in genome defense and placentation . While many such exaptations involve retroviruses , the L1TD1 gene is the only known domesticated gene whose protein-coding sequence is almost entirely derived from a LINE-1 ( L1 ) retroelement . Human L1TD1 has been shown to play an important role in pluripotency maintenance . To investigate how this role was acquired , we traced the origin and evolution of L1TD1 . We find that L1TD1 originated in the common ancestor of eutherian mammals , but was lost or pseudogenized multiple times during mammalian evolution . We also find that L1TD1 has evolved under positive selection during primate and mouse evolution , and that one prosimian L1TD1 has ‘replenished’ itself with a more recent L1 ORF1 from the pros
YbeY , a highly conserved protein , is an RNase in E . coli and plays key roles in both processing of the critical 3′ end of 16 S rRNA and in 70 S ribosome quality control under stress . These central roles account for YbeY's inclusion in the postulated minimal bacterial genome . However , YbeY is not essential in E . coli although loss of ybeY severely sensitizes it to multiple physiological stresses . Here , we show that YbeY is an essential endoribonuclease in Vibrio cholerae and is crucial for virulence , stress regulation , RNA processing and ribosome quality control , and is part of a core set of RNases essential in most representative pathogens . To understand its function , we analyzed the rRNA and ribosome profiles of a V . cholerae strain partially depleted for YbeY and other RNase mutants associated with 16 S rRNA processing; our results demonstrate that YbeY is also crucial for 16 S rRNA 3′ end maturation in V . cholerae and that its depletion impedes subunit assembly into 
Many developmental , physiological , and behavioral processes depend on the precise expression of genes in space and time . Such spatiotemporal gene expression phenotypes arise from the binding of sequence-specific transcription factors ( TFs ) to DNA , and from the regulation of nearby genes that such binding causes . These nearby genes may themselves encode TFs , giving rise to a transcription factor network ( TFN ) , wherein nodes represent TFs and directed edges denote regulatory interactions between TFs . Computational studies have linked several topological properties of TFNs — such as their degree distribution — with the robustness of a TFN's gene expression phenotype to genetic and environmental perturbation . Another important topological property is assortativity , which measures the tendency of nodes with similar numbers of edges to connect . In directed networks , assortativity comprises four distinct components that collectively form an assortativity signature . We know ve
The manner in which populations of inhibitory ( INH ) and excitatory ( EXC ) neocortical neurons collectively encode stimulus-related information is a fundamental , yet still unresolved question . Here we address this question by simultaneously recording with large-scale multi-electrode arrays ( of up to 128 channels ) the activity of cell ensembles ( of up to 74 neurons ) distributed along all layers of 3–4 neighboring cortical columns in the anesthetized adult rat somatosensory barrel cortex in vivo . Using two different whisker stimulus modalities ( location and frequency ) we show that individual INH neurons – classified as such according to their distinct extracellular spike waveforms – discriminate better between restricted sets of stimuli ( ≤6 stimulus classes ) than EXC neurons in granular and infra-granular layers . We also demonstrate that ensembles of INH cells jointly provide as much information about such stimuli as comparable ensembles containing the ~20% most informative
Synthetic biology aims at ( re- ) programming living cells like computers to perform new functions for a variety of applications . Initial work rested on transcription factors , but regulatory RNAs have recently gained much attention due to their high programmability . However , functional circuits mainly implemented with regulatory RNAs are quite limited . Here , we report the engineering of a fundamental arithmetic logic unit based on de novo riboregulation to sum two bits of information encoded in molecular concentrations . Our designer circuit robustly performs the intended computation in a living cell encoding the result as fluorescence amplitudes . The whole system exploits post-transcriptional control to switch on tightly silenced genes with small RNAs , together with allosteric transcription factors to sense the molecular signals . This important result demonstrates that regulatory RNAs can be key players in synthetic biology , and it paves the way for engineering more complex 
Cytosolic 5′-nucleotidase II ( cN-II ) regulates the intracellular nucleotide pools within the cell by catalyzing the dephosphorylation of 6-hydroxypurine nucleoside 5′-monophosphates . Beside this physiological function , high level of cN-II expression is correlated with abnormal patient outcome when treated with cytotoxic nucleoside analogues . To identify its specific role in the resistance phenomenon observed during cancer therapy , we screened a particular class of chemical compounds , namely ribonucleoside phosphonates to predict them as potential cN-II inhibitors . These compounds incorporate a chemically and enzymatically stable phosphorus-carbon linkage instead of a regular phosphoester bond . Amongst them , six compounds were predicted as better ligands than the natural substrate of cN-II , inosine 5′-monophosphate ( IMP ) . The study of purine and pyrimidine containing analogues and the introduction of chemical modifications within the phosphonate chain has allowed us to def
Since prion infectivity had never been reported in milk , dairy products originating from transmissible spongiform encephalopathy ( TSE ) -affected ruminant flocks currently enter unrestricted into the animal and human food chain . However , a recently published study brought the first evidence of the presence of prions in mammary secretions from scrapie-affected ewes . Here we report the detection of consistent levels of infectivity in colostrum and milk from sheep incubating natural scrapie , several months prior to clinical onset . Additionally , abnormal PrP was detected , by immunohistochemistry and PET blot , in lacteal ducts and mammary acini . This PrPSc accumulation was detected only in ewes harbouring mammary ectopic lymphoid follicles that developed consequent to Maedi lentivirus infection . However , bioassay revealed that prion infectivity was present in milk and colostrum , not only from ewes with such lympho-proliferative chronic mastitis , but also from those displaying
An outbreak of Ebola virus disease ( EVD ) in Liberia began in March 2014 and ended in January 2016 . Epidemiological information on the EVD cases was collected and managed nationally; however , collection and management of the data were challenging at the time because surveillance and reporting systems malfunctioned during the outbreak . EVD diagnostic laboratories , however , were able to register basic demographic and clinical information of patients more systematically . Here we present data on 16 , 370 laboratory samples that were tested between April 4 , 2014 and March 29 , 2015 . A total of 10 , 536 traceable individuals were identified , of whom 3 , 897 were confirmed cases ( positive for Ebola virus RNA ) . There were significant differences in sex , age , and place of residence between confirmed and suspected cases that tested negative for Ebola virus RNA . Age ( young children and the elderly ) and place of residence ( rural areas ) were the risk factors for death due to the
Tyrosinase ( EC 1 . 14 . 18 . 1 ) , a copper-containing monooxygenase , catalyzes the conversion of phenol to the corresponding ortho-quinone . The Streptomyces tyrosinase is generated as a complex with a “caddie” protein that facilitates the transport of two copper ions into the active center . In our previous study , the Tyr98 residue in the caddie protein , which is accommodated in the pocket of active center of tyrosinase , has been found to be converted to a reactive quinone through the formations of the μ-η2:η2-peroxo-dicopper ( II ) and Cu ( II ) -dopasemiquinone intermediates . Until now—despite extensive studies for the tyrosinase reaction based on the crystallographic analysis , low-molecular-weight models , and computer simulations—the catalytic mechanism has been unable to be made clear at an atomic level . To make the catalytic mechanism of tyrosinase clear , in the present study , the cryo-trapped crystal structures were determined at very high resolutions ( 1 . 16–1 . 70
The early steps of the production of the large ribosomal subunit are probably the least understood stages of eukaryotic ribosome biogenesis . The first specific precursor to the yeast large ribosomal subunit , the first pre-60S particle , contains 30 assembly factors ( AFs ) , including 8 RNA helicases . These helicases , presumed to drive conformational rearrangements , usually lack substrate specificity in vitro . The mechanisms by which they are targeted to their correct substrate within pre-ribosomal particles and their precise molecular roles remain largely unknown . We demonstrate that the Dbp6p helicase , essential for the normal accumulation of the first pre-60S pre-ribosomal particle in S . cerevisiae , associates with a complex of four AFs , namely Npa1p , Npa2p , Nop8p and Rsa3p , prior to their incorporation into the 90S pre-ribosomal particles . By tandem affinity purifications using yeast extracts depleted of one component of the complex , we show that Npa1p forms the bac
Adaptive behavior in a changing world requires flexibly adapting one’s rate of learning to the rate of environmental change . Recent studies have examined the computational mechanisms by which various environmental factors determine the impact of new outcomes on existing beliefs ( i . e . , the ‘learning rate’ ) . However , the brain mechanisms , and in particular the neuromodulators , involved in this process are still largely unknown . The brain-wide neurophysiological effects of the catecholamines norepinephrine and dopamine on stimulus-evoked cortical responses suggest that the catecholamine systems are well positioned to regulate learning about environmental change , but more direct evidence for a role of this system is scant . Here , we report evidence from a study employing pharmacology , scalp electrophysiology and computational modeling ( N = 32 ) that suggests an important role for catecholamines in learning rate regulation . We found that the P3 component of the EEG—an elect
Infectious diseases still represent a major challenge for humanity . In this context , their surveillance is critical . From 2010 to 2016 , two Point-Of-Care ( POC ) laboratories have been successfully implemented in the rural Saloum region of Senegal . In parallel , a homemade syndromic surveillance system called EPIMIC was implemented to monitor infectious diseases using data produced by the POC laboratory of the Timone hospital in Marseille , France . The aim of this study is to describe the steps necessary for implementing EPIMIC using data routinely produced by two POC laboratories ( POC-L ) established in rural Senegal villages . After improving EPIMIC , we started to monitor the 15 pathogens routinely diagnosed in the two POC-L using the same methodology we used in France . In 5 years , 2 , 577 deduplicated patients-samples couples from 775 different patients have been tested in the Dielmo and Ndiop POC-L . 739 deduplicated patients-samples couples were found to be positive to a
A key feature of multicellular systems is the ability of cells to function collectively in response to external stimuli . However , the mechanisms of intercellular cell signaling and their functional implications in diverse vascular structures are poorly understood . Using a combination of computational modeling and plasma lithography micropatterning , we investigate the roles of structural arrangement of endothelial cells in collective calcium signaling and cell contractility . Under histamine stimulation , endothelial cells in self-assembled and microengineered networks , but not individual cells and monolayers , exhibit calcium oscillations . Micropatterning , pharmacological inhibition , and computational modeling reveal that the calcium oscillation depends on the number of neighboring cells coupled via gap junctional intercellular communication , providing a mechanistic basis of the architecture-dependent calcium signaling . Furthermore , the calcium oscillation attenuates the his
Respiratory syncytial virus ( RSV ) is the major cause of lower respiratory tract disease in infants . Previously , we elucidated the antibody repertoire following primary RSV infection in infants . Whole genome-fragment phage display libraries ( GFPDL ) expressing linear and conformational epitopes from RSV bound 100-fold more phages within attachment protein ( G ) following primary RSV infection . The G-reactive epitopes spanned the N- and C-termini of G ectodomain , in addition to the central conserved domain ( CCD ) . In the current study , we examined the contribution of antigenic regions of G outside of the CCD to RSV-specific immunity . We evaluated the immunogenicity , neutralization and protective efficacy of all RSV-G antigenic sites identified following primary RSV infection using recombinant E . coli expressed G ectodomain ( REG ) , CCD-deleted G ectodomain ( REG ΔCCD ) , N- and C-terminal G subdomains , and antigenic site peptides . The REG ΔCCD , N- and C-terminal subdoma
During embryonic development , a number of genetic cues act to generate neuronal diversity . While intrinsic transcriptional cascades are well-known to control neuronal sub-type cell fate , the target cells can also provide critical input to specific neuronal cell fates . Such signals , denoted retrograde signals , are known to provide critical survival cues for neurons , but have also been found to trigger terminal differentiation of neurons . One salient example of such target-derived instructive signals pertains to the specification of the Drosophila FMRFamide neuropeptide neurons , the Tv4 neurons of the ventral nerve cord . Tv4 neurons receive a BMP signal from their target cells , which acts as the final trigger to activate the FMRFa gene . A recent FMRFa-eGFP genetic screen identified several genes involved in Tv4 specification , two of which encode components of the U5 subunit of the spliceosome: brr2 ( l ( 3 ) 72Ab ) and Prp8 . In this study , we focus on the role of RNA proce
Abundance of substrate receptor subunits of Cullin-RING ubiquitin ligases ( CRLs ) is tightly controlled to maintain the full repertoire of CRLs . Unbalanced levels can lead to sequestration of CRL core components by a few overabundant substrate receptors . Numerous diseases , including cancer , have been associated with misregulation of substrate receptor components , particularly for the largest class of CRLs , the SCF ligases . One relevant mechanism that controls abundance of their substrate receptors , the F-box proteins , is autocatalytic ubiquitylation by intact SCF complex followed by proteasome-mediated degradation . Here we describe an additional pathway for regulation of F-box proteins on the example of yeast Met30 . This ubiquitylation and degradation pathway acts on Met30 that is dissociated from Skp1 . Unexpectedly , this pathway required the cullin component Cdc53/Cul1 but was independent of the other central SCF component Skp1 . We demonstrated that this non-canonical d
Kinesin-3 motors drive the transport of synaptic vesicles and other membrane-bound organelles in neuronal cells . In the absence of cargo , kinesin motors are kept inactive to prevent motility and ATP hydrolysis . Current models state that the Kinesin-3 motor KIF1A is monomeric in the inactive state and that activation results from concentration-driven dimerization on the cargo membrane . To test this model , we have examined the activity and dimerization state of KIF1A . Unexpectedly , we found that both native and expressed proteins are dimeric in the inactive state . Thus , KIF1A motors are not activated by cargo-induced dimerization . Rather , we show that KIF1A motors are autoinhibited by two distinct inhibitory mechanisms , suggesting a simple model for activation of dimeric KIF1A motors by cargo binding . Successive truncations result in monomeric and dimeric motors that can undergo one-dimensional diffusion along the microtubule lattice . However , only dimeric motors undergo A
To investigate the regulation of seed metabolism and to estimate the degree of metabolic natural variability , metabolite profiling and network analysis were applied to a collection of 76 different homozygous tomato introgression lines ( ILs ) grown in the field in two consecutive harvest seasons . Factorial ANOVA confirmed the presence of 30 metabolite quantitative trait loci ( mQTL ) . Amino acid contents displayed a high degree of variability across the population , with similar patterns across the two seasons , while sugars exhibited significant seasonal fluctuations . Upon integration of data for tomato pericarp metabolite profiling , factorial ANOVA identified the main factor for metabolic polymorphism to be the genotypic background rather than the environment or the tissue . Analysis of the coefficient of variance indicated greater phenotypic plasticity in the ILs than in the M82 tomato cultivar . Broad-sense estimate of heritability suggested that the mode of inheritance of met
Vibrio cholerae is a bacterial pathogen that colonizes the chitinous exoskeleton of zooplankton as well as the human gastrointestinal tract . Colonization of these different niches involves an N-acetylglucosamine binding protein ( GbpA ) that has been reported to mediate bacterial attachment to both marine chitin and mammalian intestinal mucin through an unknown molecular mechanism . We report structural studies that reveal that GbpA possesses an unusual , elongated , four-domain structure , with domains 1 and 4 showing structural homology to chitin binding domains . A glycan screen revealed that GbpA binds to GlcNAc oligosaccharides . Structure-guided GbpA truncation mutants show that domains 1 and 4 of GbpA interact with chitin in vitro , whereas in vivo complementation studies reveal that domain 1 is also crucial for mucin binding and intestinal colonization . Bacterial binding studies show that domains 2 and 3 bind to the V . cholerae surface . Finally , mouse virulence assays show
Chronic T cell activation is a hallmark of pulmonary tuberculosis ( PTB ) . The mechanisms underpinning this important phenomenon are however , poorly elucidated , though known to rely on control of T effector cells ( Teff ) by regulatory T cells ( Treg ) . Our studies show that circulating natural Treg cells in adults with PTB preserve their suppressive potential but Teff cells from such subjects are resistant to Treg-mediated suppression . We found this to be due to expansion of an activated Teff subset identified by Human Leukocyte Antigen ( HLA ) -DR expression . Sensitivity to suppression was restored to control levels by depletion of this subset . Comparative transcriptome analysis of Teff cells that contain HLA-DR+ cells versus the fraction depleted of this population identified putative resistance mechanisms linked to IFNG , IL17A , IL22 , PD-L1 and β-chemokines CCL3L3 , CCL4 expression . Antibody blocking experiments confirmed HLA-DR+ Teff cells , but not the fraction depleted
PrPC , a host protein which in prion-infected animals is converted to PrPSc , is linked to the cell membrane by a GPI anchor . Mice expressing PrPC without GPI anchor ( tgGPI- mice ) , are susceptible to prion infection but accumulate anchorless PrPSc extra- , rather than intracellularly . We investigated whether tgGPI− mice could faithfully propagate prion strains despite the deviant structure and location of anchorless PrPSc . We found that RML and ME7 , but not 22L prions propagated in tgGPI− brain developed novel cell tropisms , as determined by the Cell Panel Assay ( CPA ) . Surprisingly , the levels of proteinase K-resistant PrPSc ( PrPres ) in RML- or ME7-infected tgGPI− brain were 25–50 times higher than in wild-type brain . When returned to wild-type brain , ME7 prions recovered their original properties , however RML prions had given rise to a novel prion strain , designated SFL , which remained unchanged even after three passages in wild-type mice . Because both RML PrPSc an
The BMP signaling pathway has a conserved role in dorsal-ventral axis patterning during embryonic development . In Drosophila , graded BMP signaling is transduced by the Mad transcription factor and opposed by the Brinker repressor . In this study , using the Drosophila embryo as a model , we combine RNA-seq with Mad and Brinker ChIP-seq to decipher the BMP-responsive transcriptional network underpinning differentiation of the dorsal ectoderm during dorsal-ventral axis patterning . We identify multiple new BMP target genes , including positive and negative regulators of EGF signaling . Manipulation of EGF signaling levels by loss- and gain-of-function studies reveals that EGF signaling negatively regulates embryonic BMP-responsive transcription . Therefore , the BMP gene network has a self-regulating property in that it establishes a balance between its activity and that of the antagonistic EGF signaling pathway to facilitate correct patterning . In terms of BMP-dependent transcription
In Tunisia , cases of zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis caused by Leishmania major are increasing and spreading from the south-west to new areas in the center . To improve the current knowledge on L . major evolution and population dynamics , we performed multi-locus microsatellite typing of human isolates from Tunisian governorates where the disease is endemic ( Gafsa , Kairouan and Sidi Bouzid governorates ) and collected during two periods: 1991–1992 and 2008–2012 . Analysis ( F-statistics and Bayesian model-based approach ) of the genotyping results of isolates collected in Sidi Bouzid in 1991–1992 and 2008–2012 shows that , over two decades , in the same area , Leishmania parasites evolved by generating genetically differentiated populations . The genetic patterns of 2008–2012 isolates from the three governorates indicate that L . major populations did not spread gradually from the south to the center of Tunisia , according to a geographical gradient , suggesting that human activit
Current global helminth control guidelines focus on regular deworming of targeted populations for morbidity control . However , water , sanitation , and hygiene ( WASH ) interventions may also be important for reducing helminth transmission . We evaluated the impact of different potential helminth protective packages on infection prevalence , including repeated treatment with albendazole and praziquantel with and without WASH access . We conducted a cohort study nested within a randomized trial of empiric deworming of HIV-infected adults in Kenya . Helminth infections and infection intensity were diagnosed using semi-quantitative real-time PCR . We conducted a manual forward stepwise model building approach to identify if there are packages of interventions that may be protective against an STH infection of any species ( combined outcome ) and each helminth species individually . We conducted secondary analyses using the same approach only amongst individuals with no anthelmintis expos
Lectin-like bacteriotoxic proteins , identified in several plant-associated bacteria , are able to selectively kill closely related species , including several phytopathogens , such as Pseudomonas syringae and Xanthomonas species , but so far their mode of action remains unrevealed . The crystal structure of LlpABW , the prototype lectin-like bacteriocin from Pseudomonas putida , reveals an architecture of two monocot mannose-binding lectin ( MMBL ) domains and a C-terminal β-hairpin extension . The C-terminal MMBL domain ( C-domain ) adopts a fold very similar to MMBL domains from plant lectins and contains a binding site for mannose and oligomannosides . Mutational analysis indicates that an intact sugar-binding pocket in this domain is crucial for bactericidal activity . The N-terminal MMBL domain ( N-domain ) adopts the same fold but is structurally more divergent and lacks a functional mannose-binding site . Differential activity of engineered N/C-domain chimers derived from two L
Sporulation in Bacillus subtilis involves two cells that follow separate but coordinately regulated developmental programs . Late in sporulation , the developing spore ( the forespore ) resides within a mother cell . The regulation of the forespore transcription factor σG that acts at this stage has remained enigmatic . σG activity requires eight mother-cell proteins encoded in the spoIIIA operon and the forespore protein SpoIIQ . Several of the SpoIIIA proteins share similarity with components of specialized secretion systems . One of them resembles a secretion ATPase and we demonstrate that the ATPase motifs are required for σG activity . We further show that the SpoIIIA proteins and SpoIIQ reside in a multimeric complex that spans the two membranes surrounding the forespore . Finally , we have discovered that these proteins are all required to maintain forespore integrity . In their absence , the forespore develops large invaginations and collapses . Importantly , maintenance of for
Although a highly heritable and disabling disease , bipolar disorder's ( BD ) genetic variants have been challenging to identify . We present new genotype data for 1 , 190 cases and 401 controls and perform a genome-wide association study including additional samples for a total of 2 , 191 cases and 1 , 434 controls . We do not detect genome-wide significant associations for individual loci; however , across all SNPs , we show an association between the power to detect effects calculated from a previous genome-wide association study and evidence for replication ( P = 1 . 5×10−7 ) . To demonstrate that this result is not likely to be a false positive , we analyze replication rates in a large meta-analysis of height and show that , in a large enough study , associations replicate as a function of power , approaching a linear relationship . Within BD , SNPs near exons exhibit a greater probability of replication , supporting an enrichment of reproducible associations near functional regio
Understanding cell proliferation mechanisms has been a long-lasting goal of the scientific community and specifically of cancer researchers . Previous genome-scale studies of cancer proliferation determinants have mainly relied on knockdown screens aimed to gauge their effects on cancer growth . This powerful approach has several limitations such as off-target effects , partial knockdown , and masking effects due to functional backups . Here we employ a complementary approach and assign each gene a cancer Proliferation Index ( cPI ) that quantifies the association between its expression levels and growth rate measurements across 60 cancer cell lines . Reassuringly , genes found essential in cancer gene knockdown screens exhibit significant positive cPI values , while tumor suppressors exhibit significant negative cPI values . Cell cycle , DNA replication , splicing and protein production related processes are positively associated with cancer proliferation , while cellular migration is
Cystic echinococcosis ( CE ) can affect the heart and the vena cava but few cases are reported . A retrospective case series of 11 patients with cardiac and/or endovascular CE , followed-up over a period of 15 years ( 1995–2009 ) is reported . Main clinical manifestations included thoracic pain or dyspnea , although 2 patients were asymptomatic . Cysts were located mostly in the right atrium and inferior vena cava . Nine patients were previously diagnosed with disseminated CE . Echocardiography was the diagnostic method of choice , although serology , electrocardiogram , chest X-ray , computed tomography/magnetic resonance imaging and histology aided with diagnosis and follow-up . Nine patients underwent cardiac surgery and nine received long-term antiparasitic treatment for a median duration of 25 months ( range 4–93 months ) . One patient died intra-operatively due to cyst rupture and endovascular dissemination . Two patients died 10 and 14 years after diagnosis , due to pulmonary em
Toll/interleukin-1 receptor ( TIR ) domains in Toll-like receptors are essential for initiating and propagating the eukaryotic innate immune signaling cascade . Here , we investigate TirS , a Staphylococcus aureus TIR mimic that is part of a novel bacterial invasion mechanism . Its ectopic expression in eukaryotic cells inhibited TLR signaling , downregulating the NF-kB pathway through inhibition of TLR2 , TLR4 , TLR5 , and TLR9 . Skin lesions induced by the S . aureus knockout tirS mutant increased in a mouse model compared with wild-type and restored strains even though the tirS-mutant and wild-type strains did not differ in bacterial load . TirS also was associated with lower neutrophil and macrophage activity , confirming a central role in virulence attenuation through local inflammatory responses . TirS invariably localizes within the staphylococcal chromosomal cassettes ( SCC ) containing the fusC gene for fusidic acid resistance but not always carrying the mecA gene . Of note , 
Evolutionary innovations can be driven by spatial and temporal changes in gene expression . Several such differences have been documented in the embryos of lower and higher Diptera . One example is the reduction of the ancient extraembryonic envelope composed of amnion and serosa as seen in mosquitoes to the single amnioserosa of fruit flies . We used transcriptional datasets collected during the embryonic development of the fruit fly , Drosophila melanogaster , and the malaria mosquito , Anopheles gambiae , to search for whole-genome changes in gene expression underlying differences in their respective embryonic morphologies . We found that many orthologous gene pairs could be clustered based on the presence of coincident discordances in their temporal expression profiles . One such cluster contained genes expressed specifically in the mosquito serosa . As shown previously , this cluster is redeployed later in development at the time of cuticle synthesis . In addition , there is a str
Haemophilus ducreyi and Treponema pallidum subsp . pertenue are major causes of leg ulcers in children in Africa and the Pacific Region . We investigated the presence of DNA ( PCR positivity ) from these bacteria on asymptomatic people , flies , and household linens in an endemic setting . We performed a cross-sectional study in rural villages of Lihir Island , Papua New Guinea during a yaws elimination campaign . Participants were asymptomatic subjects recruited from households with cases of leg ulcers , and from households without cases of leg ulcers . We rubbed swabs on the intact skin of the leg of asymptomatic individuals , and collected flies and swabs of environmental surfaces . All specimens were tested by PCR for H . ducreyi and T . p . pertenue DNA . Of 78 asymptomatic participants that had an adequate specimen for DNA detection , H . ducreyi-PCR positivity was identified in 16 ( 21% ) and T . p . pertenue-PCR positivity in 1 ( 1% ) . In subgroup analyses , H . ducreyi-PCR po
Bioinformatics is recognized as part of the essential knowledge base of numerous career paths in biomedical research and healthcare . However , there is little agreement in the field over what that knowledge entails or how best to provide it . These disagreements are compounded by the wide range of populations in need of bioinformatics training , with divergent prior backgrounds and intended application areas . The Curriculum Task Force of the International Society of Computational Biology ( ISCB ) Education Committee has sought to provide a framework for training needs and curricula in terms of a set of bioinformatics core competencies that cut across many user personas and training programs . The initial competencies developed based on surveys of employers and training programs have since been refined through a multiyear process of community engagement . This report describes the current status of the competencies and presents a series of use cases illustrating how they are being app
The infectious form of many parasitic nematodes , which afflict over one billion people globally , is a developmentally arrested third-stage larva ( L3i ) . The parasitic nematode Strongyloides stercoralis differs from other nematode species that infect humans , in that its life cycle includes both parasitic and free-living forms , which can be leveraged to investigate the mechanisms of L3i arrest and activation . The free-living nematode Caenorhabditis elegans has a similar developmentally arrested larval form , the dauer , whose formation is controlled by four pathways: cyclic GMP ( cGMP ) signaling , insulin/IGF-1-like signaling ( IIS ) , transforming growth factor β ( TGFβ ) signaling , and biosynthesis of dafachronic acid ( DA ) ligands that regulate a nuclear hormone receptor . We hypothesized that homologous pathways are present in S . stercoralis , have similar developmental regulation , and are involved in L3i arrest and activation . To test this , we undertook a deep-sequenci
Humans are frequently exposed to bacterial genotoxins involved in digestive cancers , colibactin and Cytolethal Distending Toxin ( CDT ) , the latter being secreted by many pathogenic bacteria . Our aim was to evaluate the effects induced by these genotoxins on nuclear remodeling in the context of cell survival . Helicobacter infected mice , coculture experiments with CDT- and colibactin-secreting bacteria and hepatic , intestinal and gastric cells , and xenograft mouse-derived models were used to assess the nuclear remodeling in vitro and in vivo . Our results showed that CDT and colibactin induced-nuclear remodeling can be associated with the formation of deep cytoplasmic invaginations in the nucleus of giant cells . These structures , observed both in vivo and in vitro , correspond to nucleoplasmic reticulum ( NR ) . The core of the NR was found to concentrate ribosomes , proteins involved in mRNA translation , polyadenylated RNA and the main components of the complex mCRD involved 
Facial deformation as a sequela of leprosy is caused not only by a saddle nose but also by regression of the maxilla , as well documented in paleopathological observations of excavated skeletal remains of patients with leprosy . However , maxillary changes in living patients have been evaluated only by the subjective visual grading . Here , we attempted to evaluate maxillary bone deformation in patients with leprosy using three-dimensional computed tomography ( 3D-CT ) . Three-dimensional images centered on the maxilla were reconstructed using multiplanar reconstruction methods in former patients with leprosy ( n = 10 ) and control subjects ( n = 5 ) ; the anterior-posterior length of the maxilla ( MA-P ) was then measured . The difference between the MA-P of the patients and those of controls was evaluated after compensating for individual skull size . These findings were also compared with those from previous paleopathological studies . Three former patients with lepromatous leprosy 
Identifying behaviorally relevant sounds in the presence of background noise is one of the most important and poorly understood challenges faced by the auditory system . An elegant solution to this problem would be for the auditory system to represent sounds in a noise-invariant fashion . Since a major effect of background noise is to alter the statistics of the sounds reaching the ear , noise-invariant representations could be promoted by neurons adapting to stimulus statistics . Here we investigated the extent of neuronal adaptation to the mean and contrast of auditory stimulation as one ascends the auditory pathway . We measured these forms of adaptation by presenting complex synthetic and natural sounds , recording neuronal responses in the inferior colliculus and primary fields of the auditory cortex of anaesthetized ferrets , and comparing these responses with a sophisticated model of the auditory nerve . We find that the strength of both forms of adaptation increases as one asce
Network analysis became a powerful tool giving new insights to the understanding of cellular behavior . Heat shock , the archetype of stress responses , is a well-characterized and simple model of cellular dynamics . S . cerevisiae is an appropriate model organism , since both its protein-protein interaction network ( interactome ) and stress response at the gene expression level have been well characterized . However , the analysis of the reorganization of the yeast interactome during stress has not been investigated yet . We calculated the changes of the interaction-weights of the yeast interactome from the changes of mRNA expression levels upon heat shock . The major finding of our study is that heat shock induced a significant decrease in both the overlaps and connections of yeast interactome modules . In agreement with this the weighted diameter of the yeast interactome had a 4 . 9-fold increase in heat shock . Several key proteins of the heat shock response became centers of heat
Chagas disease is a neglected chronic condition caused by Trypanosoma cruzi , with high prevalence and burden in Latin America . Ventricular arrhythmias are common in patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy , and amiodarone has been widely used for this purpose . The aim of our study was to assess the effect of amiodarone in patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy . We searched MEDLINE , Embase and LILACS up to January 2018 . Data from randomized and observational studies evaluating amiodarone use in Chagas cardiomyopathy were included . Two reviewers selected the studies , extracted data and assessed risk of bias . Overall quality of evidence was accessed using Grading of Recommendations Assessment , Development and Evaluation ( GRADE ) . We included 9 studies ( 3 before-after studies , 5 case series and 1 randomized controlled trial ) . Two studies with a total of 38 patients had the full dataset , allowing individual patient data ( IPD ) analysis . In 24-hour Holter , amiodarone reduced the
Season is a major determinant of infectious disease rates , including arboviruses spread by mosquitoes , such as dengue , chikungunya , and Zika . Seasonal patterns of disease are driven by a combination of climatic or environmental factors , such as temperature or rainfall , and human behavioral time trends , such as school year schedules , holidays , and weekday-weekend patterns . These factors affect both disease rates and healthcare-seeking behavior . Seasonality of dengue fever has been studied in the context of climatic factors , but short- and long-term time trends are less well-understood . With 2009–2016 medical record data from patients diagnosed with dengue fever at two hospitals in rural Ecuador , we used Poisson generalized linear modeling to determine short- and long-term seasonal patterns of dengue fever , as well as the effect of day of the week and public holidays . In a subset analysis , we determined the impact of school schedules on school-aged children . With a sep
For many emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases , definitive solutions via sterilizing adaptive immunity may require years or decades to develop , if they are even possible . The innate immune system offers alternative mechanisms that do not require antigen-specific recognition or a priori knowledge of the causative agent . However , it is unclear whether effective stable innate immune system activation can be achieved without triggering harmful autoimmunity or other chronic inflammatory sequelae . Here , we show that transgenic expression of a picornavirus RNA-dependent RNA polymerase ( RdRP ) , in the absence of other viral proteins , can profoundly reconfigure mammalian innate antiviral immunity by exposing the normally membrane-sequestered RdRP activity to sustained innate immune detection . RdRP-transgenic mice have life-long , quantitatively dramatic upregulation of 80 interferon-stimulated genes ( ISGs ) and show profound resistance to normally lethal viral challenge . Mul
Effective population size ( Ne ) determines the strength of genetic drift and the frequency of co-infection by multiple genotypes , making it a key factor in viral evolution . Experimental estimates of Ne for different plant viruses have , however , rendered diverging results . The independent action hypothesis ( IAH ) states that each virion has a probability of infection , and that virions act independent of one another during the infection process . A corollary of IAH is that Ne must be dose dependent . A test of IAH for a plant virus has not been reported yet . Here we perform a test of an IAH infection model using a plant RNA virus , Tobacco etch virus ( TEV ) variants carrying GFP or mCherry fluorescent markers , in Nicotiana tabacum and Capsicum annuum plants . The number of primary infection foci increased linearly with dose , and was similar to a Poisson distribution . At high doses , primary infection foci containing both genotypes were found at a low frequency ( <2% ) . The 
The majority of expression quantitative trait locus ( eQTL ) studies have been carried out in single tissues or cell types , using methods that ignore information shared across tissues . Although global analysis of RNA expression in multiple tissues is now feasible , few integrated statistical frameworks for joint analysis of gene expression across tissues combined with simultaneous analysis of multiple genetic variants have been developed to date . Here , we propose Sparse Bayesian Regression models for mapping eQTLs within individual tissues and simultaneously across tissues . Testing these on a set of 2 , 000 genes in four tissues , we demonstrate that our methods are more powerful than traditional approaches in revealing the true complexity of the eQTL landscape at the systems-level . Highlighting the power of our method , we identified a two-eQTL model ( cis/trans ) for the Hopx gene that was experimentally validated and was not detected by conventional approaches . We showed comm
When exposed to tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) or TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand ( TRAIL ) , a closely related death ligand and investigational therapeutic , cells enter a protracted period of variable duration in which only upstream initiator caspases are active . A subsequent and sudden transition marks activation of the downstream effector caspases that rapidly dismantle the cell . Thus , extrinsic apoptosis is controlled by an unusual variable-delay , snap-action switch that enforces an unambiguous choice between life and death . To understand how the extrinsic apoptosis switch functions in quantitative terms , we constructed a mathematical model based on a mass-action representation of known reaction pathways . The model was trained against experimental data obtained by live-cell imaging , flow cytometry , and immunoblotting of cells perturbed by protein depletion and overexpression . The trained model accurately reproduces the behavior of normal and perturbed cells exposed 
During pregnancy , the placenta protects the fetus against the maternal immune response , as well as bacterial and viral pathogens . Bacterial pathogens that have evolved specific mechanisms of breaching this barrier , such as Listeria monocytogenes , present a unique opportunity for learning how the placenta carries out its protective function . We previously identified the L . monocytogenes protein Internalin P ( InlP ) as a secreted virulence factor critical for placental infection . Here , we show that InlP , but not the highly similar L . monocytogenes internalin Lmo2027 , binds to human afadin ( encoded by AF-6 ) , a protein associated with cell-cell junctions . A crystal structure of InlP reveals several unique features , including an extended leucine-rich repeat ( LRR ) domain with a distinctive Ca2+-binding site . Despite afadin’s involvement in the formation of cell-cell junctions , MDCK epithelial cells expressing InlP displayed a decrease in the magnitude of the traction st
The spirochete bacterium Treponema pallidum ssp . pallidum is the etiological agent of syphilis , a chronic multistage disease . Little is known about the global T . pallidum proteome , therefore mass spectrometry studies are needed to bring insights into pathogenicity and protein expression profiles during infection . To better understand the T . pallidum proteome profile during infection , we studied T . pallidum ssp . pallidum DAL-1 strain bacteria isolated from rabbits using complementary mass spectrometry techniques , including multidimensional peptide separation and protein identification via matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight ( MALDI-TOF/TOF ) and electrospray ionization ( ESI-LTQ-Orbitrap ) tandem mass spectrometry . A total of 6033 peptides were detected , corresponding to 557 unique T . pallidum proteins at a high level of confidence , representing 54% of the predicted proteome . A previous gel-based T . pallidum MS proteome study detected 58 of these 
Protein Kinase A ( PKA ) is the major receptor for the cyclic adenosine monophosphate ( cAMP ) secondary messenger in eukaryotes . cAMP binds to two tandem cAMP-binding domains ( CBD-A and -B ) within the regulatory subunit of PKA ( R ) , unleashing the activity of the catalytic subunit ( C ) . While CBD-A in RIα is required for PKA inhibition and activation , CBD-B functions as a “gatekeeper” domain that modulates the control exerted by CBD-A . Preliminary evidence suggests that CBD-B dynamics are critical for its gatekeeper function . To test this hypothesis , here we investigate by Nuclear Magnetic Resonance ( NMR ) the two-domain construct RIα ( 91–379 ) in its apo , cAMP2 , and C-bound forms . Our comparative NMR analyses lead to a double conformational selection model in which each apo CBD dynamically samples both active and inactive states independently of the adjacent CBD within a nearly degenerate free energy landscape . Such degeneracy is critical to explain the sensitivity o
The interferon ( IFN ) -stimulated gene 15 ( ISG15 ) encodes one of the most abundant proteins induced by interferon , and its expression is associated with antiviral immunity . To identify protein components implicated in IFN and ISG15 signaling , we compared the proteomes of ISG15-/- and ISG15+/+ bone marrow derived macrophages ( BMDM ) after vaccinia virus ( VACV ) infection . The results of this analysis revealed that mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative phosphorylation ( OXPHOS ) were pathways altered in ISG15-/- BMDM treated with IFN . Mitochondrial respiration , Adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) and reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production was higher in ISG15+/+ BMDM than in ISG15-/- BMDM following IFN treatment , indicating the involvement of ISG15-dependent mechanisms . An additional consequence of ISG15 depletion was a significant change in macrophage polarization . Although infected ISG15-/- macrophages showed a robust proinflammatory cytokine expression pattern typical of
Viral protein U ( Vpu ) of HIV-1 has two known functions in replication of the virus: degradation of its cellular receptor CD4 and enhancement of viral particle release . Vpu binds CD4 and simultaneously recruits the βTrCP subunit of the SCFβTrCP ubiquitin ligase complex through its constitutively phosphorylated DS52GXXS56 motif . In this process , Vpu was found to escape degradation , while inhibiting the degradation of βTrCP natural targets such as β-catenin and IκBα . We further addressed this Vpu inhibitory function with respect to the degradation of Emi1 and Cdc25A , two βTrCP substrates involved in cell-cycle progression . In the course of these experiments , we underscored the importance of a novel phosphorylation site in Vpu . We show that , especially in cells arrested in early mitosis , Vpu undergoes phosphorylation of the serine 61 residue , which lies adjacent to the βTrCP-binding motif . This phosphorylation event triggers Vpu degradation by a βTrCP-independent process . M
Development produces correctly patterned tissues under a wide range of conditions that alter the rate of development in the whole body . We propose two hypotheses through which tissue patterning could be coordinated with whole-body development to generate this robustness . Our first hypothesis states that tissue patterning is tightly coordinated with whole-body development over time . The second hypothesis is that tissue patterning aligns at developmental milestones . To distinguish between our two hypotheses , we developed a staging scheme for the wing imaginal discs of Drosophila larvae using the expression of canonical patterning genes , linking our scheme to three whole-body developmental events: moulting , larval wandering and pupariation . We used our scheme to explore how the progression of pattern changes when developmental time is altered either by changing temperature or by altering the timing of hormone synthesis that drives developmental progression . We found the expressio
In highly polarised cells , like fungal hyphae , early endosomes function in both endocytosis as well as long-distance transport of various cargo including mRNA and protein complexes . However , knowledge on the crosstalk between these seemingly different trafficking processes is scarce . Here , we demonstrate that the ESCRT regulator Did2 coordinates endosomal transport in fungal hyphae of Ustilago maydis . Loss of Did2 results in defective vacuolar targeting , less processive long-distance transport and abnormal shuttling of early endosomes . Importantly , the late endosomal protein Rab7 and vacuolar protease Prc1 exhibit increased shuttling on these aberrant endosomes suggesting defects in endosomal maturation and identity . Consistently , molecular motors fail to attach efficiently explaining the disturbed processive movement . Furthermore , the endosomal mRNP linker protein Upa1 is hardly present on endosomes resulting in defects in long-distance mRNA transport . In conclusion , t
Many bacterial mRNAs are regulated at the transcriptional or translational level by ligand-binding elements called riboswitches . Although they both bind adenine , the adenine riboswitches of Bacillus subtilis and Vibrio vulnificus differ by controlling transcription and translation , respectively . Here , we demonstrate that , beyond the obvious difference in transcriptional and translational modulation , both adenine riboswitches exhibit different ligand binding properties and appear to operate under different regulation regimes ( kinetic versus thermodynamic ) . While the B . subtilis pbuE riboswitch fully depends on co-transcriptional binding of adenine to function , the V . vulnificus add riboswitch can bind to adenine after transcription is completed and still perform translation regulation . Further investigation demonstrates that the rate of transcription is critical for the B . subtilis pbuE riboswitch to perform efficiently , which is in agreement with a co-transcriptional re
Transcription initiation that involves the use of a 2- to ~4-nt oligoribonucleotide primer , “primer-dependent initiation , ” ( PDI ) has been shown to be widely prevalent at promoters of genes expressed during the stationary phase of growth in Escherichia coli . However , the extent to which PDI impacts E . coli physiology , and the extent to which PDI occurs in other bacteria is not known . Here we establish a physiological role for PDI in E . coli as a regulatory mechanism that modulates biofilm formation . We further demonstrate using high-throughput sequencing of RNA 5′ ends ( 5′ RNA-seq ) that PDI occurs in the pathogenic bacterium Vibrio cholerae . A comparative global analysis of PDI in V . cholerae and E . coli reveals that the pattern of PDI is strikingly similar in the two organisms . In particular , PDI is detected in stationary phase , is not detected in exponential phase , and is preferentially apparent at promoters carrying the sequence T−1A+1 or G−1G+1 ( where position 
In mammals and in plants , parental genome dosage imbalance deregulates embryo growth and might be involved in reproductive isolation between emerging new species . Increased dosage of maternal genomes represses growth while an increased dosage of paternal genomes has the opposite effect . These observations led to the discovery of imprinted genes , which are expressed by a single parental allele . It was further proposed in the frame of the parental conflict theory that parental genome imbalances are directly mirrored by antagonistic regulations of imprinted genes encoding maternal growth inhibitors and paternal growth enhancers . However these hypotheses were never tested directly . Here , we investigated the effect of parental genome imbalance on the expression of Arabidopsis imprinted genes FERTILIZATION INDEPENDENT SEED2 ( FIS2 ) and FLOWERING WAGENINGEN ( FWA ) controlled by DNA methylation , and MEDEA ( MEA ) and PHERES1 ( PHE1 ) controlled by histone methylation . Genome dosage
Recordings of ongoing neural activity with EEG and MEG exhibit oscillations of specific frequencies over a non-oscillatory background . The oscillations appear in the power spectrum as a collection of frequency bands that are evenly spaced on a logarithmic scale , thereby preventing mutual entrainment and cross-talk . Over the last few years , experimental , computational and theoretical studies have made substantial progress on our understanding of the biophysical mechanisms underlying the generation of network oscillations and their interactions , with emphasis on the role of neuronal synchronization . In this paper we ask a very different question . Rather than investigating how brain rhythms emerge , or whether they are necessary for neural function , we focus on what they tell us about functional brain connectivity . We hypothesized that if we were able to construct abstract networks , or “virtual brains” , whose dynamics were similar to EEG/MEG recordings , those networks would s
Using ∼60 , 000 SNPs selected for minimal linkage disequilibrium , we perform population structure analysis of 1 , 374 unrelated Hispanic individuals from the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis ( MESA ) , with self-identification corresponding to Central America ( n = 93 ) , Cuba ( n = 50 ) , the Dominican Republic ( n = 203 ) , Mexico ( n = 708 ) , Puerto Rico ( n = 192 ) , and South America ( n = 111 ) . By projection of principal components ( PCs ) of ancestry to samples from the HapMap phase III and the Human Genome Diversity Panel ( HGDP ) , we show the first two PCs quantify the Caucasian , African , and Native American origins , while the third and fourth PCs bring out an axis that aligns with known South-to-North geographic location of HGDP Native American samples and further separates MESA Mexican versus Central/South American samples along the same axis . Using k-means clustering computed from the first four PCs , we define four subgroups of the MESA Hispanic cohort that s
Histone chaperones CAF-1 and Asf1 function to deposit newly synthesized histones onto replicating DNA to promote nucleosome formation in a proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( PCNA ) dependent process . The DNA replication- or DNA repair-coupled nucleosome assembly pathways are important for maintenance of transcriptional gene silencing and genome stability . However , how these pathways are regulated is not well understood . Here we report an interaction between the Elongator histone acetyltransferase and the proliferating cell nuclear antigen . Cells lacking Elp3 ( K-acetyltransferase Kat9 ) , the catalytic subunit of the six-subunit Elongator complex , partially lose silencing of reporter genes at the chromosome VIIL telomere and at the HMR locus , and are sensitive to the DNA replication inhibitor hydroxyurea ( HU ) and the damaging agent methyl methanesulfonate ( MMS ) . Like deletion of the ELP3 , mutation of each of the four other subunits of the Elongator complex as well as mut
Manually curating biomedical knowledge from publications is necessary to build a knowledge based service that provides highly precise and organized information to users . The process of retrieving relevant publications for curation , which is also known as document triage , is usually carried out by querying and reading articles in PubMed . However , this query-based method often obtains unsatisfactory precision and recall on the retrieved results , and it is difficult to manually generate optimal queries . To address this , we propose a machine-learning assisted triage method . We collect previously curated publications from two databases UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot and the NHGRI-EBI GWAS Catalog , and used them as a gold-standard dataset for training deep learning models based on convolutional neural networks . We then use the trained models to classify and rank new publications for curation . For evaluation , we apply our method to the real-world manual curation process of UniProtKB/Swiss-
Gain-of-function mutations in KCNJ2-encoded Kir2 . 1 channels underlie variant 3 ( SQT3 ) of the short QT syndrome , which is associated with atrial fibrillation ( AF ) . Using biophysically-detailed human atria computer models , this study investigated the mechanistic link between SQT3 mutations and atrial arrhythmogenesis , and potential ion channel targets for treatment of SQT3 . A contemporary model of the human atrial action potential ( AP ) was modified to recapitulate functional changes in IK1 due to heterozygous and homozygous forms of the D172N and E299V Kir2 . 1 mutations . Wild-type ( WT ) and mutant formulations were incorporated into multi-scale homogeneous and heterogeneous tissue models . Effects of mutations on AP duration ( APD ) , conduction velocity ( CV ) , effective refractory period ( ERP ) , tissue excitation threshold and their rate-dependence , as well as the wavelength of re-entry ( WL ) were quantified . The D172N and E299V Kir2 . 1 mutations produced distinc
Chagas disease , caused by the protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi ( T . cruzi ) , is a complex disease endemic in Central and South America . It has been gathering interest due to increases in non-vectorial forms of transmission , especially in developed countries . The objective of this work was to investigate if adipose tissue-derived mesenchymal stromal cells ( ASC ) can alter the course of the disease and attenuate pathology in a mouse model of chagasic cardiomyopathy . ASC were injected intraperitoneally at 3 days post-infection ( dpi ) . Tracking by bioluminescence showed that cells remained in the abdominal cavity for up to 9 days after injection and most of them migrated to the abdominal or subcutaneous fat , an early parasite reservoir . ASC injection resulted in a significant reduction in blood parasitemia , which was followed by a decrease in cardiac tissue inflammation , parasitism and fibrosis at 30 dpi . At the same time point , analyses of cytokine release in cells isolated fro
In infected mammalian cells , Leishmania parasites reside within specialized compartments called parasitophorous vacuoles ( LPVs ) . We have previously shown that Retro-2 , a member of a novel class of small retrograde pathway inhibitors caused reduced LPV sizes and lower parasite numbers during experimental L . mexicana sp . infections . The purpose of this study was to determine if structural analogs of Retro-2cycl reported to have superior potency in the inhibition of retrograde pathway-dependent phenomena ( i . e . , polyomavirus cellular infection by polyomavrius and Shiga toxin trafficking in cells ) are also more effective than the parent compound at controlling Leishmania infections . In addition to their effects on LPV development , we show that two optimized analogs of Retro-2cycl , DHQZ 36 and DHQZ 36 . 1 limit Leishmania amazonensis infection in macrophages at EC50 of 13 . 63+/-2 . 58μM and10 . 57+/-2 . 66μM , respectively , which is significantly lower than 40 . 15μM the E
Beyond its role in genomic organization and compaction , the nucleosome is believed to participate in the regulation of gene transcription . Here , we report a computational method to evaluate the nucleosome sensitivity for a transcription factor over a given stretch of the genome . Sensitive factors are predicted to be those with binding sites preferentially contained within nucleosome boundaries and lacking 10 bp periodicity . Based on these criteria , the Acute Myeloid Leukemia-1a ( AML-1a ) transcription factor , a regulator of immune gene expression , was identified as potentially sensitive to nucleosomal regulation within the mouse Ly49 gene family . This result was confirmed in RMA , a cell line with natural expression of Ly49 , using MNase-Seq to generate a nucleosome map of chromosome 6 , where the Ly49 gene family is located . Analysis of this map revealed a specific depletion of nucleosomes at AML-1a binding sites in the expressed Ly49A when compared to the other , silent Ly
Cell cycle progression , including genome duplication , is orchestrated by cyclin-dependent kinases ( CDKs ) . CDK activation depends on phosphorylation of their T-loop by a CDK–activating kinase ( CAK ) . In animals , the only known CAK for CDK2 and CDK1 is cyclin H-CDK7 , which is constitutively active . Therefore , the critical activation step is dephosphorylation of inhibitory sites by Cdc25 phosphatases rather than unrestricted T-loop phosphorylation . Homologous CDK4 and CDK6 bound to cyclins D are master integrators of mitogenic/oncogenic signaling cascades by initiating the inactivation of the central oncosuppressor pRb and cell cycle commitment at the restriction point . Unlike the situation in CDK1 and CDK2 cyclin complexes , and in contrast to the weak but constitutive T177 phosphorylation of CDK6 , we have identified the T-loop phosphorylation at T172 as the highly regulated step determining CDK4 activity . Whether both CDK4 and CDK6 phosphorylations are catalyzed by CDK7 r
Meiosis produces haploid cells essential for sexual reproduction . In yeast , entry into meiosis activates transcription factors which trigger a transcriptional cascade that results in sequential co-expression of early , middle and late meiotic genes . However , these factors are not conserved , and the factors and regulatory mechanisms that ensure proper meiotic gene expression in multicellular eukaryotes are poorly understood . Here , we report that DUET/MMD1 , a PHD finger protein essential for Arabidopsis male meiosis , functions as a transcriptional regulator in plant meiosis . We find that DUET-PHD binds H3K4me2 in vitro , and show that this interaction is critical for function during meiosis . We also show that DUET is required for proper microtubule organization during meiosis II , independently of its function in meiosis I . Remarkably , DUET protein shows stage-specific expression , confined to diplotene . We identify two genes TDM1 and JAS with critical functions in cell cyc
Fragile X–associated tremor/ataxia syndrome ( FXTAS ) is a neurodegenerative disorder seen in Fragile X premutation carriers . Previous studies found that Fragile X rCGG repeats are sufficient to cause neurodegeneration and that the rCGG repeat-binding proteins Pur α and hnRNP A2/B1 can modulate rCGG–mediated neuronal toxicity . To explore the role of Pur α in rCGG–mediated neurodegeneration further , we took a proteomic approach and identified more than 100 proteins that interact with Pur α . Of particular interest is Rm62 , the Drosophila ortholog of p68 RNA helicase , which could modulate rCGG–mediated neurodegeneration . Here we show that rCGG repeats decreased the expression of Rm62 posttranscriptionally , leading to the nuclear accumulation of Hsp70 transcript , as well as additional mRNAs involved in stress and immune responses . Together these findings suggest that abnormal nuclear accumulation of these mRNAs , likely as a result of impaired nuclear export , could contribute to
Virtually all cells living in multicellular structures such as tissues and organs are encased in an extracellular matrix . One of the most important features of a biofilm is the extracellular polymeric substance that functions as a matrix , holding bacterial cells together . Yet very little is known about how the matrix forms or how matrix components encase bacteria during biofilm development . Pseudomonas aeruginosa forms environmentally and clinically relevant biofilms and is a paradigm organism for the study of biofilms . The extracellular polymeric substance of P . aeruginosa biofilms is an ill-defined mix of polysaccharides , nucleic acids , and proteins . Here , we directly visualize the product of the polysaccharide synthesis locus ( Psl exopolysaccharide ) at different stages of biofilm development . During attachment , Psl is anchored on the cell surface in a helical pattern . This promotes cell–cell interactions and assembly of a matrix , which holds bacteria in the biofilm a
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma ( PDAC ) has the worst prognosis among solid malignancies and improved therapeutic strategies are needed to improve outcomes . Patient-derived xenografts ( PDX ) and patient-derived organoids ( PDO ) serve as promising tools to identify new drugs with therapeutic potential in PDAC . For these preclinical disease models to be effective , they should both recapitulate the molecular heterogeneity of PDAC and validate patient-specific therapeutic sensitivities . To date however , deep characterization of the molecular heterogeneity of PDAC PDX and PDO models and comparison with matched human tumour remains largely unaddressed at the whole genome level . We conducted a comprehensive assessment of the genetic landscape of 16 whole-genome pairs of tumours and matched PDX , from primary PDAC and liver metastasis , including a unique cohort of 5 ‘trios’ of matched primary tumour , PDX , and PDO . We developed a pipeline to score concordance between PDAC models a
Genetic factors play an important role in the etiology of both sporadic and familial breast cancer . We aimed to discover novel genetic susceptibility loci for breast cancer . We conducted a four-stage genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) in 19 , 091 cases and 20 , 606 controls of East-Asian descent including Chinese , Korean , and Japanese women . After analyzing 690 , 947 SNPs in 2 , 918 cases and 2 , 324 controls , we evaluated 5 , 365 SNPs for replication in 3 , 972 cases and 3 , 852 controls . Ninety-four SNPs were further evaluated in 5 , 203 cases and 5 , 138 controls , and finally the top 22 SNPs were investigated in up to 17 , 423 additional subjects ( 7 , 489 cases and 9 , 934 controls ) . SNP rs9485372 , near the TGF-β activated kinase ( TAB2 ) gene in chromosome 6q25 . 1 , showed a consistent association with breast cancer risk across all four stages , with a P-value of 3 . 8×10−12 in the combined analysis of all samples . Adjusted odds ratios ( 95% confidence intervals )
Cryptococcal meningitis is a major cause of mortality throughout the developing world , yet little is known about the genetic markers underlying Cryptococcal virulence and patient outcome . We studied a cohort of 230 Cryptococcus neoformans ( Cn ) isolates from HIV-positive South African clinical trial patients with detailed clinical follow-up using multi-locus sequence typing and in vitro phenotypic virulence assays , correlating these data with clinical and fungal markers of disease in the patient . South African Cn displayed high levels of genetic diversity and locus variability compared to globally distributed types , and we identified 50 sequence types grouped within the main molecular types VNI , VNII and VNB , with 72% of isolates typed into one of seven 'high frequency' sequence types . Spatial analysis of patients’ cryptococcal genotype was not shown to be clustered geographically , which might argue against recent local acquisition and in favour of reactivation of latent infe
The way in which signal transduction pathways evolve remains a mystery , primarily because we have few examples of ones that have newly evolved . There are numerous examples of how signal transduction pathways in the same organism selectively share components , most notably between the signal transduction pathways in Saccharomyces cerevisiae for the mating process , the filamentation process , cell wall integrity , ascospore formation , and osmoregulation . These examples , however , have not provided insights into how such pathways evolve . Here , through construction of an overexpression library for 107 transcription factors , and through mutational analyses , we have identified the transcription factor Tec1 as the last component of the newly evolved signal transduction pathway that regulates the pheromone response of the white cell phenotype in Candida albicans . The elucidation of this last component , Tec1 , establishes a comprehensive description of the pheromone response pathway
The genomic GC-content of bacteria varies dramatically , from less than 20% to more than 70% . This variation is generally ascribed to differences in the pattern of mutation between bacteria . Here we test this hypothesis by examining patterns of synonymous polymorphism using datasets from 149 bacterial species . We find a large excess of synonymous GC→AT mutations over AT→GC mutations segregating in all but the most AT-rich bacteria , across a broad range of phylogenetically diverse species . We show that the excess of GC→AT mutations is inconsistent with mutation bias , since it would imply that most GC-rich bacteria are declining in GC-content; such a pattern would be unsustainable . We also show that the patterns are probably not due to translational selection or biased gene conversion , because optimal codons tend to be AT-rich , and the excess of GC→AT SNPs is observed in datasets with no evidence of recombination . We therefore conclude that there is selection to increase synony
Implementation of control of parasitic diseases requires accurate , contemporary maps that provide intervention recommendations at policy-relevant spatial scales . To guide control of soil transmitted helminths ( STHs ) , maps are required of the combined prevalence of infection , indicating where this prevalence exceeds an intervention threshold of 20% . Here we present a new approach for mapping the observed prevalence of STHs , using the example of Kenya in 2009 . Observed prevalence data for hookworm , Ascaris lumbricoides and Trichuris trichiura were assembled for 106 , 370 individuals from 945 cross-sectional surveys undertaken between 1974 and 2009 . Ecological and climatic covariates were extracted from high-resolution satellite data and matched to survey locations . Bayesian space-time geostatistical models were developed for each species , and were used to interpolate the probability that infection prevalence exceeded the 20% threshold across the country for both 1989 and 200
Cellular immunity to Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) requires a coordinated response between the innate and adaptive arms of the immune system , resulting in a type 1 cytokine response , which is associated with control of infection . The contribution of innate lymphocytes to immunity against Mtb remains controversial . We established an in vitro system to study this question . Interferon-γ is produced when splenocytes from uninfected mice are cultured with Mtb-infected macrophages , and , under these conditions , bacterial replication is suppressed . This innate control of bacterial replication is dependent on CD1d-restricted invariant NKT ( iNKT ) cells , and their activation requires CD1d expression by infected macrophages as well as IL-12 and IL-18 . We show that iNKT cells , even in limiting quantities , are sufficient to restrict Mtb replication . To determine whether iNKT cells contribute to host defense against tuberculosis in vivo , we adoptively transferred iNKT cells into
In many cases protein assemblies are stabilized by covalent bonds , one example of which is the formation of intra- or intermolecular ε- ( γ-glutamyl ) lysil cross-links catalyzed by transglutaminases ( TGases ) . Because of the potential for unwanted cross-linking reactions , the activities of many TGases have been shown to be tightly controlled . Bacterial endospores are highly resilient cells in part because they are surrounded by a complex protein coat . Proteins in the coat that surrounds Bacillus subtilis endospores are crosslinked by a TGase ( Tgl ) . Unlike other TGases , however , Tgl is produced in an active form , and efficiently catalyzes amine incorporation and protein cross-linking in vitro with no known additional requirements . The absence of regulatory factors raises questions as to how the activity of Tgl is controlled during spore coat assembly . Here , we show that substrates assembled onto the spore coat prior to Tgl production govern the localization of Tgl to the
Opisthorchis viverrini is a food-borne trematode species that might give rise to biliary diseases and the fatal cholangiocarcinoma . In Lao PDR , an estimated 2 . 5 million individuals are infected with O . viverrini , but epidemiological studies are scarce and the spatial distribution of infection remains to be determined . Our aim was to map the distribution of O . viverrini in southern Lao PDR , identify underlying risk factors , and predict the prevalence of O . viverrini at non-surveyed locations . A cross-sectional parasitological and questionnaire survey was carried out in 51 villages in Champasack province in the first half of 2007 . Data on demography , socioeconomic status , water supply , sanitation , and behavior were combined with remotely sensed environmental data and fed into a geographical information system . Bayesian geostatistical models were employed to identify risk factors and to investigate the spatial pattern of O . viverrini infection . Bayesian kriging was uti
Dar es Salaam has an extensive drain network , mostly with inadequate water flow , blocked by waste , causing flooding after rainfall . The presence of Anopheles and Culex larvae is common , which is likely to impact the transmission of lymphatic filariasis and malaria by the resulting adult mosquito populations . However , the importance of drains as larval habitats remains unknown . Data on mosquito larval habitats routinely collected by the Urban Malaria Control Program ( UMCP ) and a special drain survey conducted in 2006 were used to obtain a typology of habitats . Focusing on drains , logistic regression was used to evaluate potential factors impacting the presence of mosquito larvae . Spatial variation in the proportion of habitats that contained larvae was assessed through the local Moran's I indicator of spatial association . More than 70% of larval habitats in Dar es Salaam were human-made . Aquatic habitats associated with agriculture had the highest proportion of Anopheles 
Dengue is the most common mosquito-borne viral disease in humans . Changes of lipid-related metabolites in endoplasmic reticulum of dengue virus ( DENV ) infected cells have been associated with replicative complexes formation . Previously , we reported that DENV infection inhibits HMGCR phosphorylation generating a cholesterol-enriched cellular environment in order to favor viral replication . In this work , using enzymatic assays , ELISA , and WB we found a significant higher activity of HMGCR in DENV infected cells , associated with the inactivation of AMPK . AMPK activation by metformin declined the HMGCR activity suggesting that AMPK inactivation mediates the enhanced activity of HMGCR . A reduction on AMPK phosphorylation activity was observed in DENV infected cells at 12 and 24 hpi . HMGCR and cholesterol co-localized with viral proteins NS3 , NS4A and E , suggesting a role for HMGCR and AMPK activity in the formation of DENV replicative complexes . Furthermore , metformin and l
Functional rearrangements in biomolecular assemblies result from diffusion across an underlying energy landscape . While bulk kinetic measurements rely on discrete state-like approximations to the energy landscape , single-molecule methods can project the free energy onto specific coordinates . With measures of the diffusion , one may establish a quantitative bridge between state-like kinetic measurements and the continuous energy landscape . We used an all-atom molecular dynamics simulation of the 70S ribosome ( 2 . 1 million atoms; 1 . 3 microseconds ) to provide this bridge for specific conformational events associated with the process of tRNA translocation . Starting from a pre-translocation configuration , we identified sets of residues that collectively undergo rotary rearrangements implicated in ribosome function . Estimates of the diffusion coefficients along these collective coordinates for translocation were then used to interconvert between experimental rates and measures of
The genetic landscape of medullary thyroid cancer ( MTC ) is not yet fully understood , although some oncogenic mutations have been identified . To explore genetic profiles of MTCs , formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded tumor tissues from MTC patients were assayed on the Ion AmpliSeq Cancer Panel v2 . Eighty-four sporadic MTC samples and 36 paired normal thyroid tissues were successfully sequenced . We discovered 101 hotspot mutations in 18 genes in the 84 MTC tissue samples . The most common mutation was in the ret proto-oncogene , which occurred in 47 cases followed by mutations in genes encoding Harvey rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog ( N = 14 ) , serine/threonine kinase 11 ( N = 11 ) , v-kit Hardy-Zuckerman 4 feline sarcoma viral oncogene homolog ( N = 6 ) , mutL homolog 1 ( N = 4 ) , Kiesten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog ( N = 3 ) and MET proto-oncogene ( N = 3 ) . We also evaluated anaplastic lymphoma kinase ( ALK ) rearrangement by immunohistochemistry and break-apart fluor
Asymptomatic leishmaniasis may drive the epidemic and an important challenge to reach the goal of joint Visceral Leishmaniasis ( VL ) elimination initiative taken by three Asian countries . The role of these asymptomatic carriers in disease transmission , prognosis at individual level and rate of transformation to symptomatic VL/Post Kala-azar Dermal Leishmaniasis ( PKDL ) needs to be evaluated . Asymptomatic cases were diagnosed by active mass survey in eight tribal villages by detecting antileishmanial antibody using rK39 based rapid diagnostic kits and followed up for three years to observe the pattern of sero-conversion and disease transformation . Out of 2890 total population , 2603 were screened . Antileishmanial antibody was detected in 185 individuals of them 96 had a history of VL/PKDL and 89 without such history . Seventy nine such individuals were classified as asymptomatic leishmaniasis and ten as active VL with a ratio of 7 . 9:1 . Out of 79 asymptomatic cases 2 were lost 
Aneuploidy and gross chromosomal rearrangements ( GCRs ) can lead to genetic diseases and the development of cancer . We previously demonstrated that introduction of the repetitive retrotransposon Ty912 onto a nonessential chromosome arm of Saccharomyces cerevisiae led to increased genome instability predominantly due to increased rates of formation of monocentric nonreciprocal translocations . In this study , we adapted Multiplex Ligation–dependent Probe Amplification ( MLPA ) to analyze a large numbers of these GCRs . Using MLPA , we found that the distribution of translocations induced by the presence of Ty912 in a wild-type strain was nonrandom and that the majority of these translocations were mediated by only six translocation targets on four different chromosomes , even though there were 254 potential Ty-related translocation targets in the S . cerevisiae genome . While the majority of Ty912-mediated translocations resulted from RAD52-dependent recombination , we observed a numb
Similarly to protein folding , the association of two proteins is driven by a free energy funnel , determined by favorable interactions in some neighborhood of the native state . We describe a docking method based on stochastic global minimization of funnel-shaped energy functions in the space of rigid body motions ( SE ( 3 ) ) while accounting for flexibility of the interface side chains . The method , called semi-definite programming-based underestimation ( SDU ) , employs a general quadratic function to underestimate a set of local energy minima and uses the resulting underestimator to bias further sampling . While SDU effectively minimizes functions with funnel-shaped basins , its application to docking in the rotational and translational space SE ( 3 ) is not straightforward due to the geometry of that space . We introduce a strategy that uses separate independent variables for side-chain optimization , center-to-center distance of the two proteins , and five angular descriptors o
