 This study introduces a non-invasive imaging modality using endogenous autofluorescence signatures of metabolic cofactors NAD(P)H and FAD to distinguish all seven airway epithelial cell types in real time. The methodology allows for the identification of cell types without the need for genetic labels and sometimes with greater accuracy than destructive immunofluorescent approaches. The researchers also discovered the existence of secretory cell associated antigen passages (SAPs) in the airway, which are likely to play an important role in the immunologic response to antigens present in the airway lumen. The methodology can be optimized for assessing human airway specimens and for the real-time assessment of disease-specific physiologic parameters and the efficacy of therapeutic interventions. However, it must be re-optimized in each new experimental setting and machine learning algorithms will require re-training. The training set provided in this manuscript will be a useful validation for native mouse tracheal epithelia. The study was conducted using C57BL/6J, MT-MG, and Cd11c-mCherry mice, and all procedures were performed with Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC)-approved protocols. The researchers used an Olympus FVMPE-RS multiphoton laser scanning microscope equipped with a MaiTai HPDS-O IR pulsed laser and an INSIGHT X3-OL IR pulsed laser for imaging. The autofluorescence images were obtained using a MATLAB algorithm to normalize the Z-axis to the basement membrane, and morphological measurements were conducted as described in the study. The researchers used k-nearest neighbor, multinomial logistic regression, and XGBoost algorithms to classify cell types using features such as FAD, NADH, FAD/NADH ratio, nuclear position, X-length, Y-length, Z-length, XY aspect ratio, YZ aspect ratio, SD of the fluorescence ratio from midpoint above, and SD of fluorescence ratio bottom. The study also includes the use of methacholine to stimulate SAP formation and the investigation of the functions of airway SAPs.
 Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death worldwide due to the inability of the adult heart to regenerate after injury. N6-methyladenosine (m6A) methylation, catalyzed by the enzyme methyltransferase-like 3 (Mettl3), plays an important role in various physiological and pathological processes. However, the role of m6A in heart regeneration remains unclear. To study m6A function in heart regeneration, Mettl3 expression was modulated in vitro and in vivo. Knockdown of Mettl3 significantly increased cardiomyocyte proliferation and accelerated heart regeneration following heart injury in neonatal and adult mice. Conversely, Mettl3 overexpression decreased cardiomyocyte proliferation and suppressed heart regeneration in postnatal mice. Through conjunct analysis of methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (MeRIP-seq) and RNA-seq, Fgf16 was identified as a downstream target of Mettl3-mediated m6A modification during postnatal heart regeneration. Mettl3 negatively regulates Fgf16 mRNA expression in an m6A-Ythdf2-dependent manner. Silencing of Fgf16 suppressed cardiomyocyte proliferation, but overexpression of ΔFgf16, in which the m6A consensus sequence was mutated, significantly increased cardiomyocyte proliferation and accelerated heart regeneration in postnatal mice. These findings demonstrate that Mettl3 post-transcriptionally reduces Fgf16 mRNA levels through an m6A-Ythdf2-dependent pathway, thereby controlling cardiomyocyte proliferation and heart regeneration.
 The risk of second primary cancers (SPCs) is increasing among cancer survivors, but the underlying causal relationship remains unclear. To investigate this, a pan-cancer association study was conducted using the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database and the UK Biobank (UKB). The study identified significant cross-correlations between different cancers, with 11 significant associations found after harmonizing SIR and MR results. Notable findings include an increased risk of non-Hodgkin lymphoma in patients initially diagnosed with oral pharyngeal cancer (SIRSEER = 1.18, 95% CI: 1.05-1.31, ORradial-MR = 1.21, 95% CI: 1.13-1.30, p = 6.00 × 10-3; ORcause = 1.17, 95% CI: 0.05-1.31, p = 8.90 × 10-3), an increased risk of soft tissue cancer in patients initially diagnosed with ovary cancer (SIRSEER = 1.72, 95% CI: 1.08-2.60, ORradial-MR = 1.39, 95% CI: 1.22-1.58, p = 1.07 × 10-3; ORcause = 1.36, 95% CI: 1.16-1.58, p = 0.01), and an increased risk of lung cancer and myeloma in patients initially diagnosed with kidney cancer (SIRSEER = 1.28, 95% CI: 1.22-1.35, ORradial-MR = 1.17, 95% CI: 0.08-1.27, p = 6.60 × 10-3; ORcause = 1.16, 95% CI: 0.02-1.31, p = 0.05; SIRSEER = 1.54, 95% CI: 1.33-1.78, ORradial-MR = 1.72, 95% CI: 1.21-2.45, p = 0.02; ORcause = 1.49, 95% CI: 0.04-2.34, p = 0.02). The study was supported by grants from the National Natural Science Foundation of China, Shanghai, and The University of Hong Kong. The increasing prevalence of cancers and prolonged survival due to improved treatments make it essential to understand the relationship between primary and secondary cancers to optimize treatment and improve survivorship.
 This study aimed to develop a novel behavioral paradigm for macaque monkeys to investigate gaze biases in value-based decision-making, as previous paradigms contained restrictions that interfere with natural gaze patterns and limit the ability to identify the relationship between gaze behavior and choice. The study identified gaze biases in monkeys that were qualitatively and quantitatively similar to those in humans, and these biases were well-explained using a sequential sampling model framework. The findings suggest a common mechanism that can explain gaze-related choice biases across species and open the way for mechanistic studies to identify the neural origins of this behavior.The study involved two adult male rhesus monkeys, Monkey C and Monkey K, who were implanted with an orthopedic head restraint device and performed a value-based decision-making task while head-restrained and seated in front of a computer monitor. Eye position was monitored using a non-invasive infrared eye-tracker. The monkeys were encouraged to direct their attention towards the target that appeared first by temporally staggering the onset of the two targets in 30% of the trials. The monkeys directed their initial fixation to the cued target on 96% of the staggered-onset trials.The study used the Gaze-Weighted Linear Accumulator Model (GLAM) to gain insight into potential mechanisms underlying choice and gaze behavior in the task. The GLAM modeling was conducted using the glambox toolbox and revealed that the multiplicative model provided a better fit than the additive model, suggesting that gaze amplifies the value of the attended target. The findings suggest that gaze plays an active role in the decision process and that the underlying neural mechanisms are not fully understood, making it essential to identify the neural origins of this behavior.
 This study investigates the metabolic response of the generalist insect species Drosophila suzukii to various fruit diets using untargeted metabolomics. The study found that flies developed on different fruits have mostly identical metabolomes, indicating metabolic generalism. However, quantitative levels of ions are critical for correctly classifying fly metabolomes according to diet. The study also identified diet-specific fly ions using Elastic Net regularization and found that most of these ions were present in similar quantities in their respective fruit and flies who consumed it. Some diet-specific metabolites were produced de novo by flies, while others were accumulated or sequestered. The results demonstrate that only some fruit metabolites are metabolized or excreted, while others tend to accumulate in flies. The study also found that organic acids and flavonoids were ubiquitous in plants and were detected in flies, with specific substituents modulating the bioactivity of flavonoids and potentially mediating differential developmental responses to fruit diet in D. suzukii. The study concludes that the metabolomes of flies fed on different fruits are mostly identical, and metabolic generalism is a mechanism promoting diet breadth in D. suzukii. The study also suggests that more studies are needed to gain a deeper understanding of the biochemical diversity of specific plant organs and the physiological origin and maintenance of diet generalism and specialization.
 Yersinia pestis, the etiological agent of plague, evolved from its ancestor Yersinia pseudotuberculosis approximately 6000-7000 years ago through a series of genetic changes that enabled it to become an arthropod-borne pathogen. One of the key adaptations was the development of the capacity for biofilm-dependent blockage of the flea foregut, which facilitated transmission by flea bite. A frameshift mutation in the rcsD gene, which is part of the Rcs signalling pathway, is an important evolutionary step that facilitated this adaptation.The rcsD gene in Y. pestis has undergone a frameshift mutation after codon 642 due to a single nucleotide deletion. However, the N-terminal region of rcsDpe is still functional, as deletion of this region reduced biofilm formation and Congo red (CR) pigmentation. Replacement of rcsDpe with rcsDpstb and rcsB deletion significantly increased biofilm formation.The rcsD frameshift mutation followed the emergence of rcsA pseudogenization, and it further altered the canonical Rcs phosphorylation signal cascade, fine-tuning biofilm production to be conducive with retention of the pgm locus in modern lineages of Y. pestis.In summary, a frameshift mutation in rcsD is an important evolutionary step that fine-tuned biofilm production to ensure perpetuation of flea-mammal plague transmission cycles. This mutation resulted in the production of a small protein composing the C-terminal RcsD histidine-phosphotransferase domain (designated RcsD-Hpt) and full-length RcsD. The rcsD frameshift mutation occurred after the emergence of rcsA pseudogenization and altered the Rcs phosphorylation signal cascade, fine-tuning biofilm production to be conducive with retention of the pgm locus in modern lineages of Y. pestis.
 This study investigated the peer review process in scientific publishing using 572 peer review reports from 200 papers published in Nature Communications within the neuroscience field. The research utilized OpenAI's ChatGPT to analyze the sentiment and politeness of the reviews, finding that ChatGPT's scores were consistent and accurate, outperforming conventional lexicon- and rule-based algorithms. The study revealed that evaluations of the same manuscript varied considerably among different reviewers, suggesting subjectivity in the peer review process. Additionally, the study found that first authors with a female name received less polite reviews than first authors with a male name, although this did not affect the favorability of their reviews. Female senior authors received more favorable reviews than male senior authors, which may be due to selection bias elsewhere in the publishing process. The study underscores the potential of generative artificial intelligence to evaluate and enhance scientific peer review, leading to a more equitable and just academic system. However, limitations include the selection bias present in the dataset and the focus on the neuroscience field. Future studies may expand upon this initial work by incorporating larger sample sizes and encompassing diverse scientific disciplines and journals.
 This study demonstrates that continuous intraperitoneal administration of interferon-alpha (IFNα) in mice reduces liver metastatic spreading of colorectal cancer (CRC) cells and improves survival. The antimetastatic effects of IFNα do not rely on its direct inhibition of tumor cell proliferation or metastatic cell growth within the liver. Instead, IFNα acts on hepatic endothelial cells (HECs), including liver sinusoidal endothelial cells (LSECs), to negatively control trans-sinusoidal migration of CRC cells. This is evidenced by a reduction in the overall LSEC porosity, an enhancement in the subendothelial deposition of basal membrane components, and an upregulation of LYVE-1, a marker of hepatic capillarization. The results suggest that IFNα therapy may transform a metastases-prone liver into a metastases-resistant organ by stimulating HECs/LSECs to shape a vascular antimetastatic barrier. The study also proposes that this strategy could be used as perioperative neoadjuvant immunotherapy in CRC patients undergoing resection of their primary tumor who are at high risk for developing metachronous liver metastases.
 This study aimed to investigate the impact of vaccination on influenza A virus (IAV) evolution in pigs by analyzing the genetic diversity and reassortment of IAV in vaccinated and nonvaccinated pigs. The researchers used bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) samples from a previous vaccine-challenge study, where pigs were co-infected with H1N1 and H3N2 IAV strains using a co-infection seeder pig model. Thirteen BALF samples were selected for viral plaque purification, and 202 IAV plaques were isolated and whole-genome sequenced.The results showed that among the 202 plaques, 148 (73.3%) were the parental virus-challenge strains, and 54 (26.7%) were IAV reassortants. Prime-boost vaccinated pigs had fewer reassortant viruses than nonvaccinated pigs, likely due to a reduction in the number of days pigs were co-infected with both challenge viruses. However, direct sequencing from BALF samples revealed limited impact of vaccination on viral variant frequency, evolutionary rates, and nucleotide diversity in any IAV coding regions.The findings suggest that vaccination helps reduce the risk of IAV co-infection in pigs and decreases the number and diversity of genotypes of reassortant viruses generated in pig lungs. However, vaccine-induced immunity may drive variant selection on IAV genomes, which could affect the within-host genetic diversity and expand the antigenic diversity of IAV populations. Further studies are needed to fully understand the complex relationship between vaccination, IAV evolution, and the emergence of novel antigenic variants with zoonotic and pandemic potential.
 This study investigated the role of place cell remapping in memory formation by examining the effects of scopolamine, an amnestic drug, on place cell activity and population coding in the hippocampus of rats. The study used a large-field-of-view version of the UCLA Miniscope to image neurons in the hippocampal CA1 layer during maze sessions. The results showed that scopolamine impaired aversive learning, as evidenced by a failure to exhibit long-term retention of avoidance behavior. However, it did not acutely disrupt spatial tuning of CA1 neurons or shock-evoked responses. Instead, scopolamine reduced the percentage of recurring place cells and degraded the between-session similarity of recurring place cell population vectors. This disruption of between-session place cell stability was similar in male and female rats. The study also found that place cell remapping occurred more in rats that underwent acquisition and extinction of avoidance than in control rats, but the spatial distribution of place fields remained unchanged by remapping. The findings suggest that place cell remapping may play a functional role in storing memories of aversive encounters, but potential confounds must be considered. The study also highlights the importance of controlling for behavioral differences between sessions and normalizing speed and occupancy distributions to accurately assess place cell remapping.
 HIV-1 infection triggers inflammasome activation in humanized mice, leading to the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines and pyroptosis, an inflammatory form of cell death. This early inflammasome response is crucial for HIV-1 pathogenesis, as it drives HIV-1-induced CD4+ T cells death and promotes HIV-1 replication. Viremic mice demonstrated higher levels of IFI16 and AIM2 expression, two key DNA sensors involved in inflammasome activation, in their organs than non-viremic mice. The upregulation of IFI16 and AIM2 was common in all three organs, with a maximal transcription at 24 days post-infection. Delayed transcriptomic changes occurring around day 24 post-infection were observed, notably in the spleen. Furthermore, IFI16 expression was higher in viremic mice and correlated with corresponding tissue viral RNA copies and CD4+ T cells percentage in the blood. Similarly, AIM2 reached a maximum of expression at day 24 post-infection in the bone marrow, lymph nodes, and the spleen and was expressed at higher levels in viremic mice. AIM2 expression also correlated with viral RNA copies in the same organ and inversely with CD4+ T cells percentage in the blood. Other inflammasome-related genes, such as ASC and CASP1, reached a maximum of expression 24 days post-infection and their expression was associated with HIV-1 replication in the bone marrow for ASC and HIV-1 pathogenesis for ASC in the bone marrow and the spleen and for CASP-1 in the lymph nodes.To confirm inflammasome activation in huNSG mice upon HIV-1 infection, plasma levels of inflammasome-related cytokines, such as IL-1β and IL-18, and other pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as IFN-γ, IL-6, IP-10, and TNF-α, were quantified. HIV-1 infection was previously described to induce a rapid and intense cytokine storm involving several pro-inflammatory biomarkers. Concordantly, huNSG mice infected with HIV-1 demonstrated a rapid elevation in the plasma levels of several pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as IFN-γ, IL-18, and IP-10, but not of IL-6 and TNF-α. IL-18 levels accumulated at day 10 and day 24 post-infection, and viremic mice harbored higher IL-18 levels than non-viremic mice. Furthermore, IL-18 levels correlated with viremia and inversely with CD4+ T cells percentage in the blood. Although IFN-γ and IP-10 concentrations were also higher in viremic mice, plasma levels were not correlated with plasma viral load or CD4+ T cells percentage in the blood. IL-1β levels were below the LOD of the assay for most of the mice blood samples, likely due to its short half-life, low volume of plasma collected in mice, and fast degradation.Treatment of huNSG mice with the caspase-1 inhibitor VX-765 reduced the levels of circulating pro-inflammatory cytokines induced during early HIV-1 infection. VX-765 decreased the expression of IFI16, AIM2, ASC, and CASP1 genes in the spleen at 11 and 22 days after HIV infection. Importantly, caspase-1 inhibition interfered with HIV-1 replication, as evidenced by lower plasma viral loads and a reduced content of total HIV-1 DNA in the spleen of VX-765-treated mice. Caspase-1 activity was lower in all subsets compared to the spleen, and none of them presented a decreased caspase-1 activity in response to VX-765 treatment. However, splenic CD11c+ and CD14+ cells presented a reduced caspase-1 activity upon VX-765 treatment, while CD4+ and CD8+ T cells presented low levels of caspase-1 activity and did not respond to VX-765 treatment. In the bone marrow, caspase-1 activity was
 This study investigated the hypothesis that pair bond transcriptional signatures erode following long-term partner separation in prairie voles. Opposite-sex and same-sex pairs were cohabited for 2 weeks and then either remained paired or were separated for 48 hours or 4 weeks. The results showed that opposite-sex pair bonded males exhibited increased partner huddle duration between baseline and long-term timepoints, while separated animals did not. However, prior work indicates that pair bond transcription may induce other long-term biological changes that erode more slowly, such as long-lasting epigenetic memory, proteomic and/or structural changes, or transcriptional changes in a key subset of cells. The study also found that pair bond transcription may involve oxytocin signaling in the NAc, and future studies will help shed light on the pain associated with loss and how we integrate grief in order to meaningfully reengage with life. The study used RNAseq and behavior testing to examine the effects of partner separation on pair bond transcription and behavior in prairie voles. The study found that opposite-sex pairs showed a significant decrease in partner preference after long-term separation, while same-sex pairs did not. The study also found that opposite-sex pairs showed a significant decrease in partner huddling latency after long-term separation, while same-sex pairs did not. The study used a custom Python-based script to analyze frame-by-frame behavioral data and calculate the time spent huddling with each tethered animal. The study used RNAseq to examine the effects of partner separation on gene expression in the NAc and found that opposite-sex pairs showed a significant decrease in gene expression related to glia and extracellular matrix organization, synapse organization, and vesicle docking after long-term separation. The study also found that opposite-sex pairs showed an increase in gene expression related to myelination and oligodendrocyte differentiation after long-term separation. The study used a vTRAP construct to specifically examine neuronal transcriptional changes in the NAc and found that opposite-sex pairs showed a significant decrease in gene expression related to dopamine signaling, synaptic plasticity, and vesicle trafficking after long-term separation. The study also found that opposite-sex pairs showed an increase in gene expression related to estrogen receptor signaling and oxidative phosphorylation pathways after long-term separation. The study used a publicly available snRNAseq dataset to validate the neuronal enriched gene list and found that the gene list was predominantly expressed in neuronal cell types. The study also found that opposite-sex pairs showed a significant decrease in gene expression related to glia and extracellular matrix organization, synapse organization, and vesicle docking after long-term separation, while same-sex pairs did not. The study also found that opposite-sex pairs showed an increase in gene expression related to myelination and oligodendrocyte differentiation after long-term separation. The study used a vTRAP construct to specifically examine neuronal transcriptional changes in the NAc and found that opposite-sex pairs showed a significant decrease in gene expression related to dopamine signaling, synaptic plasticity, and vesicle trafficking after long-term separation, while same-sex pairs did not. The study also found that opposite-sex pairs showed an increase in gene expression related to estrogen receptor signaling and oxidative phosphorylation pathways after long-term separation. The study used a publicly available snRNAseq dataset to validate the neuronal enriched gene list and found that the gene list was predominantly expressed in neuronal cell types. The study also found that opposite-sex pairs showed a significant decrease in gene expression related to glia and extracellular matrix organization, synapse organization, and vesicle docking after long-term separation, while same-sex pairs did not. The study also found that opposite-sex pairs showed an increase in gene expression related to myelination and oligodendrocyte differentiation after long-term separation. The study used a vTRAP construct to specifically examine neuronal transcriptional changes in the NAc and found that opposite-sex pairs showed a significant decrease in gene expression related to dopamine signaling, synaptic plasticity, and vesicle trafficking after long-term separation, while same-sex pairs did not. The study also found that opposite-sex pairs showed an increase in gene expression related to estrogen receptor signaling and oxidative phosphorylation pathways after long-term separation. The study used a publicly available snRNAseq dataset to validate the neuronal enriched gene list and found that the gene list was predomin
 This study investigates the emergence of motor variability from motor primitives during early human development using longitudinal EMG recordings of leg muscles during locomotor and rhythmic movements. The researchers found that the structure of trial-to-trial variability changes during early development, with infants having a minimal number of motor primitives but generating maximal motor variability in the neonatal period due to variable activations of these primitives. However, toddlers generate less variability despite the existence of more primitives due to more regularity within their activation. These results suggest that human neonates initiate motor exploration as soon as birth by variably activating a few basic locomotor primitives that later fraction and become more consistently activated by the motor system. The study also discusses the implications of these findings for motor exploration and the maturation of the motor system through development.
 The Global Typhoid Genomics Consortium was established to analyze Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi (Typhi) genomic data to inform public health action. This meta-analysis, which includes 13,000 Typhi genomes, highlights the spread of genotype 4.3.1 (H58) in Asia and Eastern/Southern Africa, while distinct genotypes dominate and have independently evolved antimicrobial resistance (AMR) in other regions. Data gaps remain in many parts of the world, and travel-associated sequences can provide informal 'sentinel' surveillance for such locations. The data indicate that ciprofloxacin non-susceptibility (>1 resistance determinant) is widespread across geographies and genotypes, with high-level ciprofloxacin resistance (≥3 determinants) reaching 20% prevalence in South Asia. Extensively drug-resistant (XDR) typhoid has become dominant in Pakistan (70% in 2020), but has not yet become established elsewhere. Ceftriaxone resistance has emerged in eight non-XDR genotypes, including a ciprofloxacin-resistant lineage (4.3.1.2.1) in India. Azithromycin resistance mutations were detected at low prevalence in South Asia, including in two common ciprofloxacin-resistant genotypes. The consortium aims to encourage continued data sharing and collaboration to monitor the emergence and global spread of AMR Typhi and inform decision-making around the introduction of typhoid conjugate vaccines (TCVs) and other prevention and control strategies. The meta-analysis was not funded specifically but was supported by fellowships from the European Union, the Wellcome Trust, and the National Health and Medical Research Council.
 In Arabidopsis thaliana, plants undergo vernalization, a process triggered by long-term winter cold, to synchronize flowering time with spring. This is achieved through epigenetic silencing of the floral repressor gene, FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC). During vernalization, CBFs (C-repeat/dehydration-responsive element binding factors) accumulate and bind to CRT/DREs (C-repeat/dehydration-responsive elements) at the 3′-end of FLC, leading to COOLAIR expression. COOLAIR is an antisense transcript that removes active histone marks from FLC chromatin, contributing to FLC silencing. However, COOLAIR is not required for the vernalization process as shown by the normal vernalization response of cbfs and FLCΔCOOLAIR mutants. CBFs are upregulated by long-term cold exposure and mediate long-term cold-induced COOLAIR expression, indicating that the cold signaling pathways for short-term and long-term cold responses are not sharply distinguishable.
 This study used single-genome proviral sequencing to investigate the distribution of HIV-1 reservoir cells in multiple anatomical compartments from autopsy samples of three individuals living with HIV-1 and receiving antiretroviral therapy until their decease. Intact proviruses were detected in lymph nodes and, to a lesser extent, in the colon, suggesting the involvement of gut-associated lymphoid tissues. The study is among the first to identify near full-length proviral sequences from the central nervous system in two study participants, supporting the hypothesis that CNS cells can serve as reservoirs for long-term HIV-1 persistence despite antiretroviral therapy. Large clones of virally infected cells were broadly disseminated across multiple tissues, and in selected cases, involved cells from the CNS, suggesting that HIV-1 reservoir cells seeded to the brain via hematogenous spread can proliferate in the local tissue microenvironment of the CNS. HIV-1 can invade the CNS within days after infection, and infected cells may frequently be short-lived but some infected CD4 T cells in the brain may persist long-term. Microglial cells, the main innate immune cell population of the CNS, may represent a primary cellular site for long-term HIV-1 persistence in the CNS due to their long half-life, ability to divide and self-renew, and high cell-intrinsic susceptibility to HIV-1. The study identified intact proviruses in basal ganglia and periventricular white matter, suggesting that HIV-1 may preferentially persist in these anatomical compartments in the CNS. Clones of HIV-1-infected cells were distributed across different autologous CNS tissues, suggesting local spread of virally infected cells through clonal proliferation within the immune microenvironment of the CNS. The study did not determine which cell types were infected by HIV-1 and responsible for clonal expansion of viral reservoir cells in the CNS but it is possible that infected microglia are involved. The study identified CXCR4-tropic proviruses exclusively in one study participant, who was diagnosed with HIV-1 25 years prior to starting antiretroviral therapy and died 10 months after ART commencement, suggesting that viral CXCR4 tropism most likely resulted from 'coreceptor switch' frequently occurring during advanced stages of immune deficiency. The study also identified a high number of HIV-1 proviruses isolated from the prostate, which had the second highest proviral frequency among all analyzed tissues in study participant 2, second only to lymph node samples. The prostate can represent a tissue reservoir for HIV-1. The study has several limitations, including the small sample size, limited tissue sizes available for investigation, and the inability to study phylogenetic associations between tissue reservoirs of HIV-1 relative to viral species circulating in peripheral blood. However, the work supports the persistence of genome-intact HIV-1 in many tissues, including CNS tissues, emphasizing the difficulties in finding strategies to effectively eliminate HIV-1 from the human body in clinical settings.
 Circadian clocks are highly conserved transcriptional regulators that control 24-hour oscillations in gene expression, physiological function, and behavior in almost every tissue. They are thought to control tissue-specific gene expression and function, synchronized by the brain clock. Many disease states are associated with loss of circadian regulation, but it is currently difficult to monitor tissue-specific clock function in intact organisms. In this study, researchers developed a method called Locally Activatable BioLuminescence (LABL) to directly measure the transcriptional oscillation of distinct neuronal and peripheral clocks in live, intact Drosophila.Using LABL, they observed that specific neuronal and peripheral clocks exhibit distinct transcriptional properties. Loss of the receptor for PDF, a circadian neurotransmitter critical for the function of the brain clock, disrupts circadian locomotor activity but not all tissue-specific circadian clocks. Peripheral clocks in non-neuronal tissues were less stable after the loss of PDF signaling but continued to oscillate. Distinct clocks exhibit differences in their loss of oscillatory amplitude or their change in period, depending on their anatomical location, mutation, or fly age.LABL is an effective tool that allows for rapid, affordable, and direct real-time monitoring of individual clocks in vivo. It offers high spatial and temporal resolution of clock oscillations and can be used to investigate the effects of mutations and environmental factors on distinct clocks. The researchers believe that this technology will be critical in the interrogation of distinct circadian clocks in future studies, particularly in monitoring peripheral clock function during disease progression in Drosophila.
 This study investigates the function of the yeast protein Vrl1, which was previously thought to be non-functional due to an inactivating mutation in commonly used strains. Vrl1 was found to have features of a SNX-BAR coat protein and forms an obligate complex with Vin1, the paralog of the retromer SNX-BAR protein Vps5. The VINE complex, consisting of Vrl1 and Vin1, occupies endosomal tubules and redistributes a conserved mannose 6-phosphate receptor-like protein from endosomes. VINE is a multifunctional coat complex that regulates trafficking and signaling events at the endosome. The VINE complex is important for maintaining endosomal identity and is responsible for recruiting effectors, including coat proteins and vesicle tethers, to the endosomal membrane. The study also highlights the importance of the VPS9-domain GEFs Muk1 and Vps9 in stimulating the endosomal Rabs Vps21, Ypt52, and Ypt53 to perform downstream functions.
 This study aimed to understand the effects of temperature on interaction strengths between marine fish species using quantitative fish environmental DNA (eDNA) metababarcoding in the Boso Peninsula, Japan. The researchers collected eDNA samples twice a month for two years from 11 coastal sites and analyzed the data using nonlinear time series analytical tools. They detected fish-fish interactions as information flow between eDNA time series and quantified pairwise interaction strengths. Water temperature influenced fish-fish interaction strengths, and the impact varied among fish species. For example, interaction strengths of Halichoeres tenuispinis and Microcanthus strigatus increased with water temperature, while those of Engraulis japonicus and Girella punctata decreased. The findings demonstrate a practical research framework to study the effects of environmental variables on interaction strengths of marine communities in nature, contributing to understanding and predicting natural marine ecosystem dynamics.
 The study examines the microstructure and crystallography of eggshells from all major clades of Palaeognathae, including extinct taxa, using electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD). The results reveal detailed information about the previously categorized ostrich-, rhea-, and tinamou-style morphotypes of palaeognath eggshells. The rhea-style eggshell is homologous, while the ostrich- and tinamou-style morphotypes are best interpreted as homoplastic morphologies. The analysis also provides implications for ornithology and palaeontology, aiding in the understanding of the evolution of modern and extinct dinosaur eggshells, and offering useful archives for comparative contrasts in various fields such as palaeoenvironmental reconstructions, geochronology, and zooarchaeology.The study emphasizes the importance of palaeognath eggshells as a valuable subject for evolutionary biology due to their long-term preservation in the fossil record. The evolution of eggs and eggshells within a single dinosaur clade is not well understood, and homoplastic similarities can complicate the interpretation. The current study documents the evolution of eggs among modern avian dinosaurs, providing insights into the evolution among extinct taxa. Palaeognathae, one of the two major clades of modern birds, is characterized by larger, flightless birds with distinctive eggshell microstructures compared to those of Neognathae. The eggs and eggshells of Palaeognathae might be more appropriate modern analogues for those of flightless non-avian dinosaors than those of volant Neognathae due to the influence of flight on egg mass and eggshell thickness.The phylogeny of Palaeognathae has undergone significant revisions since the late 2000s, mainly due to advancements in molecular approaches. The current study revisits palaeognath eggs and eggshells with a revised phylogeny of Palaeognathae, offering a comprehensive and updated understanding of avian egg evolution. The findings provide insights into the evolution of palaeognath eggshells, their implications for ornithology and palaeontology, and potential future research topics.
 Ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) are important for communication and navigation in various animal species, including rodents, bats, frogs, cetaceans, and primates. USVs have diverse functions, such as distress calls, courtship signals, territorial defense signals, private communication, and echolocation. In mice, USVs have been extensively studied due to their social and affective significance and the growing mechanistic understanding of their neuronal circuitry. Mouse USVs are increasingly used in neurodevelopmental and neurolinguistic research as a behavioral measure.Reliably attributing USVs to their emitter during close interactions is a significant challenge, as imprecise localization can lead to incorrect assumptions about the behavior of the animals. To address this challenge, a hybrid ultrasonic tracking system, Hybrid Vocalization Localizer (HyVL), was developed. HyVL integrates a high-resolution acoustic camera with high-quality ultrasonic microphones to achieve millimeter precision (~3.4-4.8 mm, 91% assigned) in localizing USVs, which is three times better than other systems.Using mouse courtship interactions as an example, HyVL demonstrated that males and females vocalize in different relative spatial positions, and the fraction of female vocalizations has likely been overestimated previously due to imprecise localization. Furthermore, when two male mice interact with one female, one male takes a dominant role in the interaction, both in terms of the vocalization rate and the location relative to the female.HyVL substantially improves the precision with which social communication between rodents can be studied. It is also affordable, open-source, easy to set up, and reduces the required number of experiments and animals. The system's compact form factor and relatively low hardware costs enable deployment in larger and more natural environments for studying social interaction in various species.
 Sarcomeres are the force-producing units of striated muscles, and their architecture is conserved across animals. In vertebrates, sarcomeres are bordered by two Z-discs, which anchor actin filaments, and myosin filaments are cross-linked at the M-band. The actin and myosin filaments are mechanically linked by the titin protein, which spans half a sarcomere and determines sarcomere length. Recent evidence suggests that titin is the main sarcomeric component responsible for passive tension in muscles.In Drosophila, the sarcomere architecture is also conserved, but the role of titin in determining sarcomere length and architecture is less well understood. To investigate this, researchers used nanobodies to determine the precise location of two Drosophila titin homologs, Sallimus and Projectin, in intact flight muscles. They found that Sallimus bridges across the I-band, whereas Projectin is located at the beginning of the A-band. The ends of both proteins overlap at the I-band/A-band border, revealing a staggered organization of the two Drosophila titin homologs. This architecture may help to stably anchor Sallimus at the myosin filament and ensure efficient force transduction during flight.The researchers used a series of nanobodies to recognize specific domains of Sallimus and Projectin and combined them with DNA-PAINT super-resolution microscopy to determine their precise location in intact flight muscle sarcomeres. They found that the staggered organization of the two proteins may explain how high mechanical tension can be stably transmitted across the sarcomere and how sarcomere length can be ruled without the presence of a single protein linking the Z-disc to the M-band as observed in vertebrates.In summary, the researchers used nanobodies and DNA-PAINT super-resolution microscopy to investigate the precise location and organization of two Drosophila titin homologs, Sallimus and Projectin, in intact flight muscle sarcomeres. They found that Sallimus bridges across the I-band, whereas Projectin is located at the beginning of the A-band, and the ends of both proteins overlap at the I-band/A-band border. This architecture may help to stably anchor Sallimus at the myosin filament and ensure efficient force transduction during flight.
 This study presents a high-throughput, simple, and low-cost microfluidic method for quantitatively measuring the elastic (storage) and viscous (loss) modulus of individual cells. The method uses a long microfluidic channel with a square cross-section and a high-viscosity fluid to induce large cell deformations and tank-treading motion. The cells' viscoelastic properties are extracted based on a theoretical framework developed by Roscoe (1967) that describes the deformation of a viscoelastic sphere in a viscous fluid under steady laminar flow. The method's accuracy is confirmed using atomic force microscopy (AFM)-calibrated polyacrylamide beads and cells.The study demonstrates that suspended cells exhibit power-law, soft glassy rheological behavior that is cell-cycle-dependent and mediated by the physical interplay between the actin filament and intermediate filament networks. The method can be used for dose-response measurements of drugs that induce actin cytoskeleton disassembly, and the responses are modulated by the cell cycle and the intermediate filament network of the cells.The method involves suspending cells in a high-viscosity fluid and pumping them through a several centimeter long microfluidic channel with a square cross-section. The fluid shear stress induces large cell deformations, which are imaged using a complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) camera at frame rates of up to 500 frames/s to achieve a measurement throughput of up to 100 cells/s. The method takes advantage of two physical principles: the shear stress profile inside a long microfluidic channel depends only on the pressure gradient along the channel and the channel geometry, and the shear stress profile does not depend on the viscosity of the cell suspension medium.The method allows for the computation of the cell's viscoelastic properties from the stress-strain relationship and the tank-treading frequency. The elastic modulus characterizes the cell's elastic behavior, while the loss modulus characterizes its viscous behavior. The method provides quantitatively accurate estimates for the elastic and dissipative properties of soft spherical particles.
 This study investigates the role of a specific mutation in the mitofusin 2 (MFN2) gene, R400Q, in cardiomyopathy. MFN2 is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial protein essential for heart development, contraction, and repair. While gene ablation studies have demonstrated that mitofusins are critical for heart development and function, human conditions caused by natural loss-of-function MFN gene mutations have not been reported to cause cardiac involvement. Instead, these mutations have been linked to neuronal diseases such as Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2A (CMT2A) or optic degeneration.The study found that the MFN2 R400Q mutation is over-represented in cardiomyopathy among individuals of African descent, and that this mutation is defective in recruiting Parkin to mitochondria, thereby impacting an important mitophagic pathway. Mice engineered to carry the Mfn2 Q400 mutation develop a perinatal cardiomyopathy, while Mfn2 T105M and Mfn2 M376V knock-in mice develop a CMT2A-like neuropathy and normal hearts, respectively.The findings suggest that mitophagic dysfunction is a new mechanism for cardiomyopathy, and that targeted investigations of other genetic mitophagy defects as cardiac risk modifiers are warranted. The study also supports the concept that different patterns of mitofusin dysfunction underlie organ-specific manifestations of clinical diseases caused by MFN2 mutations.
 This study investigated the hypothesis that early-life exposure to sex-specific olfactory cues from mice can influence their lifespan. Female mice were exposed to odors from adult females from 3 to 60 days of age, and their lifespan was compared to female mice exposed to water or male odors. The results showed that female mice exposed to female odors had an 8% increase in median lifespan and a 9% increase in the age at 90th percentile compared to the control group. The interaction term in the Cox regression analysis did not achieve significance, indicating that the odor effect did not depend on genotype. The study adds to the growing evidence that non-genetic factors, such as early-life environmental influences, can impact late-life health and lifespan in mammals. The mechanism for the lifespan effect in the FU-treated female mice is not yet known and warrants further investigation.
 This study investigated the effects of commonly used doses of clozapine-N-oxide (CNO) and a novel DREADD actuator, compound 21 (C21), on sleep in wild-type C57BL/6J mice. The results showed that both CNO and C21 suppressed REM sleep relative to NREM sleep, affected sleep architecture, and increased sleep state stability and continuity. These effects cannot be fully explained by back-metabolism to clozapine alone but might result from off-target binding to endogenous receptors. The findings have important implications for the future application of chemogenetics in sleep research and neuroscience.The study used 16 young adult male C57BL/6J mice, 13 of which were implanted for combined experiments involving procedures for this project and related work. All animals were implanted with EEG and EMG electrodes and had a rest interval of at least 3 days between experiments. The animals received intraperitoneal injections of CNO or saline in a counterbalanced order, with a 72 hr rest interval between the first two experimental sessions. Seven animals also received a 3 mg/kg C21 injection in a fifth experimental session.EEG/EMG recordings were performed using the 128 Channel Neurophysiology Recording System and the electrophysiological recording software Synapse. Raw data was stored on a local computer in 24 hr recording blocks and visually scored in individual 4 s epochs using the Sleep Sign for Animals software.The results showed that CNO and C21 both led to a suppression of REM sleep relative to NREM sleep, affected sleep architecture, and increased sleep state stability and continuity. These effects were consistent with more consolidated sleep and bore striking similarities with those previously reported for clozapine in rats and humans.The study suggests that the DREADD actuators, CNO and C21, have sleep modulatory effects which cannot be fully explained by back-metabolism to clozapine alone but might result from off-target binding to endogenous receptors. This is the first demonstration that DREADD actuators that do not convert to clozapine can elicit relevant behavioural effects in DREADD-free animals. The findings have important implications for the future application of chemogenetics in sleep research and neuroscience.The study also highlights the need to use non-DREADD-expressing controls, even when novel actuators are used that cannot convert to clozapine. Considering the sensitivity of sleep architectural parameters to CNO and C21 demonstrated here, our work reveals a new opportunity of using simple EEG/EMG sleep screening to assess the pharmacological inertness of novel chemogenetic actuators in vivo. The experimental refinements of the DREADD approach, plus novel technological improvements, will unleash the full potential of this powerful tool in behavioural neuroscience and help pave the way for its clinical application.
 The microfluidic multiplexed chemotaxis device (MCD) is a novel tool designed for high-throughput screening of bacterial responses to a range of chemostimulant concentrations. The MCD uses a single pressure source to serially dilute a chemostimulus with a single buffer input, producing five logarithmically separated chemical solutions. Simultaneous chemotaxis assays are fast and efficient compared to conventional devices and eliminate variability due to multiple culture preparations and potential changes in cell cultures. The MCD design is amenable to modifications, such as alteration of chemical concentrations, gradients, and flows, and increased multiplexing. The MCD was fabricated using two-layer soft lithography with polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) and validated using epifluorescence microscopy. The MCD enables robust and efficient quantification of the chemotactic responses of various bacterial species to different chemostimulants, simplifying the labor-intensive chemotaxis screening process. The MCD could also be applied to accelerate microfluidic approaches to human health studies and meet the high-throughput demands of chemical synthesis, screening, and testing with living cells. The MCD was fabricated using standard single and two-layer photolithography and multilayer photolithography with SU-8 photoresist. The final channel heights for the fabricated MCD dilution layer were 90-94.5 μm for the main channel and 37-38.5 μm for the herringbone ridges, while the cell injection layer was 71-73 μm high. The MCD was pre-treated by flowing a 0.5% (w/v) bovine serum albumen solution to reduce cell adhesion to the microchannel surfaces and then washed with ASW before use. Fluid flow was driven by a single pressure controller, and pressures were scaled down for P. haloplanktis experiments. Between each chemotaxis assay, the fluid inputs were flowed for a minimum of 2 minutes to stratify cell, chemostimulus, and buffer streams in the observation channels. Upon halting the flow, a monotonic concentration profile was established in each observation channel due to the diffusion of the chemostimulus. The spatio-temporal evolution of the bacterial distribution was determined by imaging the cells using phase-contrast microscopy with a sCMOS camera for approximately 10 minutes. An automated computer-controlled stage was used to cyclically move the microscope field of view to each observation channel 75 times, producing an effective imaging period of 8 seconds for each observation channel. Each experiment was technically replicated at least three times with the same culture and repeated on different days with freshly grown cells. For validation of the MCD, a conventional single assay (SA) microfluidic device was designed with a similar geometry to the individual MCD observation channels. The SA chemotaxis devices were used to validate the MCD for the well-established chemotactic behavior of V. alginolyticus to the chemoattractant serine. The SA devices were fabricated in a single layer using soft lithography, and they were pre-treated with a 0.5% (w/v) BSA solution and flushed with ASW prior to experiments. The SA chemotaxis devices were used to validate the MCD for the well-established chemotactic behavior of V. alginolyticus to the chemoattractant serine. The three inlets of the single assay device carried the chemoattractant dissolved in ASW, V. alginolyticus suspended in ASW, and ASW, respectively. The three solutions were flow stratified for a minimum of 2 minutes using a syringe pump, whereby flow rates were controlled by syringe size to maintain a 4:1:4 ratio of the stream widths. In an identical manner to the MCD, a chemostimulus gradient develops in the channel via diffusion, and the chemotactic response of the cell population was observed over time. Imaging was performed with phase-contrast microscopy at 1 fps over the course of approximately 10 minutes using a CMOS camera. Sample size in each replicate chemotaxis experiment ranged from 7000 to 16,000 measured cell positions, dependent on the strain used for each particular assay. After completing the initial 10 minute filming period corresponding to the first measurement of a given organism/chemostimulus pairing, technical replicates were achieved in both the MCD and SA devices
 This study investigates the role of Elavl1, an RNA-binding protein, during cranial neural crest specification using the chick embryo model. Elavl1 is essential for maintaining cranial neural crest specification by stabilizing the Wnt antagonist Draxin through 3′-UTR interaction. Loss of Elavl1 and Draxin disrupts multiple nodes of the gene regulatory networks (GRNs) required for neural crest specification, including those driven by Wnt and BMP. The data suggest that Elavl1 acts as a point of integration to coordinate signaling from parallel but independent GRNs. Elavl1 is known to stabilize RNAs via 3′-UTR interaction, and this study aligns well with previous work in other contexts. However, unlike prior high-throughput studies that found many RNAs directly bound by Elavl1, this study identified a single biologically relevant target of Elavl1 during neural crest specification. The study also speculates that Elavl1 likely intersects with additional GRNs following specification and may have additional targets and roles beyond Draxin stabilization. The findings provide insights into the critical role of post-transcriptional regulation in neural crest development and the importance of Elavl1 in coordinating signaling from parallel but independent GRNs.
 Breathing is essential for life and is controlled by complex neural networks and cellular mechanisms in the brainstem and spinal cord. The respiratory rhythm is generated by oscillatory populations in the brainstem, which are then relayed to phrenic motor neurons (MNs) in the spinal cord. Phrenic MNs provide the sole innervation to the diaphragm, a muscle critical for bringing oxygenated air into the lungs during inspiration. The principles governing the assembly of respiratory circuits are unknown, but recent research suggests that coordinated activity of type I (N-cadherin) and type II (Cdh6, Cdh9, and Cdh10) cadherins is required for robust respiratory motor output.Both MNs and Dbx1-derived neurons require this combinatorial cadherin code to establish proper phrenic MN cell body positioning and dendritic orientation. Inactivation of cadherins in MNs during a critical developmental window results in perinatal lethality due to respiratory failure and a striking reduction in phrenic MN bursting activity. These findings demonstrate that cadherins are vital to respiratory circuit assembly and function and suggest a model where cadherin-mediated adhesive recognition dictates wiring specificity through multifaceted functions in dendritic organization and molecular recognition.
 This study demonstrates that the spread of misinformation on social media platforms is facilitated by the existing incentive structure, where social rewards (in the form of "likes" and "shares") are dissociated from the veracity of the information. To combat this, the researchers tested the efficacy of an intervention where users are given the option to react to posts using "trust" and "distrust" buttons. The hypothesis is that people will use these buttons to discern true from false information more so than existing engagement options, creating an environment where rewards and punishments are more directly associated with the veracity of information.The study involved 951 participants who engaged in simulated social media platforms where they encountered true and false information. In Experiment 1, participants were asked to use "trust" and "distrust" buttons to discern true from false information, and the results showed that participants used these buttons in a more discerning manner than existing "like" and "dislike" buttons. In Experiments 2 and 3, new groups of participants were tested in social media platforms that introduced real "trust" and "distrust" feedback from other participants. The results showed that participants shared more true than false information in these environments, indicating that the new feedback structure improved sharing discernment.The study also found that participants who received "trust" feedback were more discerning in their sharing behavior than those who received "like" feedback, and those who received "distrust" feedback were more discerning than those who received "dislike" feedback. The results held when controlling for demographics and political orientation and replicated in an independent sample.The researchers suggest that this intervention could be adopted by social media platforms to reduce the spread of misinformation without reducing engagement. The study provides insights into the cognitive mechanisms that make this intervention effective and suggests that it may also help increase the accuracy of beliefs. The researchers plan to integrate the new incentive structure into existing and future social media platforms to further test the external validity of the findings.
