 The study investigates the role of the PARbZIP family of transcription factors in regulating homeostatic plasticity, a mechanism that enables neuronal networks to rebalance activity following perturbations. The PARbZIP family consists of HLF, TEF, DBP, and E4BP4, all of which share the same DNA binding motif. While these factors are typically thought to act as transcriptional activators, they do not oscillate in the brain outside of the SCN and have been linked to epilepsy. The study found that prolonged activity deprivation activates a robust transcriptional program involving the PARbZIP TFs HLF and TEF, which act to restrain the expression of homeostatic plasticity. The results suggest that homeostatic plasticity is itself subject to activity-dependent regulation and is transcriptionally restrained by the PARbZIP TFs HLF and TEF. The study also found that HLF and TEF are upregulated soon after activity withdrawal and continue to increase with time, suggesting that their upregulation correlates with the length of the network's silencing. Loss of function of members of the PARbZIP family is also associated with epileptic phenotypes, but it is proposed that instead of driving homeostatic plasticity, HLF and TEF are upregulated in the TTX condition to restrain homeostatic responses. The study further found that HLF and TEF regulate recurrent excitatory synaptic connections and inhibition, although the inhibition is less affected. Overall, the study provides new insights into the regulation of homeostatic plasticity and the role of transcriptional regulation in neuronal networks.
 The developing respiratory buds of the mammalian lung are marked by the presence of important progenitor cells, identified by the expression of SOX9 and ID2. Early in embryonic development, prior to E13.5, SOX9+progenitors are multipotent and generate both airway and alveolar epithelium. However, they become selective progenitors of alveolar epithelial cells later in development. Transcription factors, including Sox9, Etv5, Irx, Mycn, and Foxp1/2, interact in complex gene regulatory networks to control proliferation and differentiation of SOX9+progenitors. The molecular mechanisms by which these transcription factors and other signaling pathways control chromatin state to establish and maintain cell-type identity are not well-defined.To gain insight into the chromatin accessibility landscape of developing SOX9+lung epithelial progenitor cells, paired RNA-Seq and ATAC-Seq were performed on SOX9+epithelial cells isolated from a transgenic reporter mouse at E11.5 and E16.5. Widespread changes in chromatin accessibility were observed between these timepoints, particularly at distal cis-regulatory elements. Gene regulatory network inference identified a common SOX9+progenitor gene regulatory network, implicating phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling in the developmental regulation of SOX9+progenitor cells. Consistent with this model, conditional ablation of PI3K signaling in the developing lung epithelium in mouse resulted in an expansion of the SOX9+EPC population and impaired airway epithelial cell differentiation.These data demonstrate that PI3K signaling is required for epithelial patterning during lung organogenesis and emphasize the combinatorial power of paired RNA and ATAC seq in defining regulatory networks in development. However, further studies are needed to fully understand the molecular mechanisms by which PI3K signaling regulates chromatin state and cellular differentiation during lung development. Additionally, the role of other signaling pathways and transcription factors in integrating developmental and external stimuli into comprehensive cellular programs that enable regulatory proteins access to activate or repress gene expression remains an area of active investigation.
 Working memory (WM) is a crucial cognitive domain affected in Multiple Sclerosis (MS), primarily studied using the binary slot model. However, recent observations from continuous reproduction paradigms suggest the dynamic allocation of WM resources (resource model) for more accurate predictions. This study employed two continuous reproduction paradigms, memory-guided localization (MGL) and analog recall tasks with sequential presentation, to investigate WM dysfunction in MS.The results demonstrated an overall increase in recall error and decreased recall precision in MS. While sequential paradigms were better in distinguishing healthy control from relapsing-remitting MS, MGL were more accurate in discriminating MS subtypes. Computational modeling revealed that imprecision in decoding information and swap error were responsible for WM dysfunction in MS.The study provided a sensitive measure for assessing WM impairment and offered new insights into the organization of WM dysfunction in MS. However, it had limitations, including the lack of structural and functional evaluations and the absence of an eye tracker. Future studies should address these limitations to validate the findings and better understand the underlying mechanisms of WM deficits in MS.The study involved 121 MS patients (61 relapsing-remitting and 60 secondary progressive) and 73 healthy controls. Participants underwent a clinical interview, neurological examination, Nine-Hole Peg Test, and the Persian version of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA). Visual WM was assessed using two analog recall tasks, MGL and analog recall paradigms with sequential bar presentation. Statistical analyses were conducted using IBM SPSS Statistics for Mac, and the level of significance was set at p-value<0.05.
 Nociception, the neural process that animals use to detect and encode potentially tissue-damaging stimuli, is crucial for survival. While the peripheral mechanisms of nociception are conserved across the animal kingdom, the brain-mediated modulation is less understood, particularly in non-mammalian species. In this study, researchers investigated the role of Drosophila in nociceptive regulation through its descending inhibitory mechanism from the brain, mediated by the neuropeptide Drosulfakinin (DSK), a homolog of cholecystokinin (CCK) that plays an important role in mammalian descending control of nociception.Using a combination of genetic, behavioral, histological, and Ca2+ imaging analyses, the researchers found that DSK mutants were hypersensitive to noxious heat, and that DSK signaling was mediated through its receptors, CCKLR-17D1 and CCKLR-17D3. They also identified neurons involved in DSK-mediated nociceptive regulation at a single-cell resolution and revealed a DSKergic descending neuronal pathway that inhibits nociception.These findings provide the first evidence for a descending modulatory mechanism of nociception from the brain in a non-mammalian species, suggesting that the descending inhibition is an ancient mechanism to regulate nociception. The study also highlights the importance of using non-mammalian model systems to investigate central pain pathophysiology and descending nociceptive control mechanisms, which may contribute to our understanding of the mechanisms underlying central pain modulation and pain pathology due to dysfunctions of descending modulatory pathways.
 This study investigates a fungus, Ophiocordyceps sp. BRM1, that infects Aglaia odorata plants despite the presence of antifungal rocaglates produced by the host. The researchers found that Ophiocordyceps sp. BRM1 possesses an amino acid substitution in eIF4A, a molecular target of rocaglates, which confers resistance to the compound. The genetically engineered Colletotrichum orbiculare, a cucumber-infecting fungus, with the same substitution showed insensitivity to the translational repression induced by rocaglates, enabling it to infect plants even in their presence. The findings demonstrate a unique contest between plants and fungi centered on secondary metabolites synthesized in the host plant.Plants often produce secondary metabolites, such as rocaglates, as defense mechanisms against parasites. However, some fungi can overcome the barrier presented by these compounds through various mechanisms. In this study, researchers found an Aglaia plant-parasitizing fungus that overcomes the toxicity of rocaglates through an amino acid substitution in eIF4A. The fungus was identified as belonging to the Ophiocordyceps genus and was distinct from other known species based on multilocus phylogenetic analysis. The genetically engineered C. orbiculare, a cucumber-infecting fungus, with the same substitution showed insensitivity to the translational repression induced by rocaglates, demonstrating the fungus's resistance to the compound.Rocaglates are small molecules synthesized in plants of the genus Aglaia and have antifungal properties, making them of particular interest due to their antitumor activities. They target eIF4A, a DEAD-box RNA binding protein, and function as potent translation inhibitors with a unique mechanism. The artificial anchoring of eIF4A becomes a steric hindrance to scanning 40S ribosomes, masks the cap structure of mRNA, and reduces the available pool of eIF4A for active translation initiation events by the sequestration of eIF4A on mRNAs. Since eIF4A is an essential gene for all eukaryotes, Aglaia plants must have a mechanism to evade the cytotoxicity of the rocaglates they produce. This self-resistance is achieved by the unique amino acid substitutions at the sites in eIF4A proteins where rocaglates directly associate.The researchers identified a fungus growing on the surface of the stem of the Aglaia odorata plant with tremendous vitality. The fungus was isolated, and its RNA was sequenced, revealing that it belonged to the Ophiocordyceps genus and was distinct from other known species based on multilocus phylogenetic analysis. The fungus possessed an amino acid substitution in eIF4A at the critical interface for rocaglate interaction, conferring resistance to the compound. The genetically engineered C. orbiculare, a cucumber-infecting fungus, with the same substitution showed insensitivity to the translational repression induced by rocaglates, demonstrating the fungus's resistance to the compound.In conclusion, this study highlights a unique contest between plants and fungi centered on secondary metabolites synthesized in the host plant. The findings demonstrate that Ophiocordyceps sp. BRM1, a parasitic fungus on Aglaia plants, overcomes the toxicity of rocaglates through an amino acid substitution in eIF4A, conferring resistance to the compound. The genetically engineered C. orbiculare, a cucumber-infecting fungus, with the same substitution shows insensitivity to the translational repression induced by rocaglates, enabling it to infect plants even in their presence. The study provides insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying plant-fungus interactions and the evolution of resistance to secondary metabolites.
 Psychophysical methods, including forced-choice tasks, are widely used in psychology, cognitive science, neuroscience, and behavioral economics to quantify the relationship between external stimuli and internal sensations. These methods involve controlled experiments and rigorous analysis using signal detection theory (SDT), which assumes a sensory signal generates an internal representation corrupted by Gaussian variability and leads to a binary decision based on a comparison of this stochastic signal with an internal criterion. However, these methods require many trials and preferably highly trained participants, leading to tedious data collection and potential limitations in studying untrained subjects or children.Recently, continuous psychophysics has emerged as an alternative approach, abandoning the rigid trial structure in favor of continuous behavioral adjustments to dynamic stimuli. This method requires fewer trials and is more natural for untrained subjects, making it suitable for various applications, such as measuring contrast sensitivity, eye movements, or retinal sensitivity. However, current analysis methods for continuous psychophysics do not account for the additional variability introduced by the motor component of the task, leading to larger perceptual thresholds compared to traditional psychophysical experiments.To address this challenge, a new computational analysis framework based on Bayesian inverse optimal control (BIOC) has been proposed. This framework not only recovers perceptual thresholds but also estimates subjects' action variability, internal behavioral costs, and subjective beliefs about the experimental stimulus dynamics. By modeling the behavior of subjects as optimal control under uncertainty, the BIOC method probabilistically inverts the model to infer the underlying parameters, providing further evidence for the importance of considering acting uncertainties, subjective beliefs, and intrinsic costs in experiments, even when the focus seems to be only on perception.The BIOC method has been validated through simulations and previously published data, demonstrating its feasibility for actions involving human and nonhuman primate participants, such as tracking with a computer mouse, finger, or gaze. The results show that the method recovers perceptual uncertainties closer to those obtained with classical paradigms than previous analysis methods, while also extracting meaningful psychological quantities capturing behavioral variability, effort costs, and subjective perceptual beliefs.In summary, the BIOC method for continuous psychophysics offers a powerful and flexible framework for analyzing behavioral data, allowing for the modeling and inferring of additional cognitive factors that influence perception. This approach opens up the prospect of a wider adoption of continuous psychophysics paradigms in psychology, cognitive science, and neuroscience, while also providing further evidence for the importance of considering the behavioral goal and subjective costs in experiments.
 This study explores how normative decision rules, specifically decision thresholds, adapt to reward and evidence-quality switches in dynamic environments. The authors used dynamic programming to derive optimal threshold policies for a general incremental cost function and applied it to constant cost functions. They found that the optimal decision thresholds can be mapped to LLR-space to obtain adaptive thresholds. The authors also addressed the challenges of optimizing both the numerator and denominator of the reward rate equation for variable trial lengths by adopting techniques from average reward reinforcement learning. The study's findings demonstrate that ideal observers and human subjects use adaptive and robust normative decision strategies in relatively simple decision environments. The results can aid experimentalists in understanding the possible behaviors to expect in subject data, identifying adaptive decision rules, and identifying the relationship between task dynamics and decision rules. The study also highlights the importance of considering the sensitivity of performance to both model choice and task parameters.
 This study applies a conceptual framework using artificial intelligence to examine the links between biodiversity dynamics and abiotic change in a freshwater ecosystem, specifically Lake Ring in Denmark, over the past century. The framework identifies correlations between community-level functional biodiversity, biocides, and climate change records. The results show that the freshwater community assemblage and functionality changed significantly over time without returning to its original state, even after partial recovery from eutrophication and land use in recent times. Insecticides and fungicides, combined with extreme temperature events and precipitation, explained up to 90% of the functional biodiversity changes. The community-level biodiversity approach used here reliably explained freshwater ecosystem shifts, unlike traditional quality indices. The study advocates the use of high-throughput systemic approaches on long-term trends to identify the environmental factors causing loss of biodiversity and disrupting ecosystem functions.
 In the present study, researchers evaluated the proposition that the brain compensates for fundamental delays in motion perception by predictively encoding the position of moving objects using information from their past trajectories. Using multivariate analysis of high temporal resolution electroencephalographic (EEG) data, they found that early position representations of moving objects were activated substantially earlier than equivalent activity evoked by unpredictable flashes, aligning the earliest representations of moving stimuli with their real-time positions. However, delays still accumulated across later stages of cortical processing. The findings suggest that the predictability of straight trajectories enables full compensation for neural delays accumulated early in stimulus processing, but that subsequent cortical visual areas do not implement further compensation for neural delays. The existence of these extrapolation mechanisms opens the possibility that transmission delays on the way to visual cortex might be partially or fully compensated, allowing the early visual system to represent moving objects on predictable trajectories closer to their real-time locations. However, it is unclear whether similar mechanisms operate along the cortical visual processing hierarchy to compensate for additional delays that accumulate as visual information is processed. The study provides the first direct evidence in humans that extrapolation processes allow the early visual system to localise moving objects in real time.
 This study investigated how early language experience modulates the neural representation of semantic knowledge in the human brain using functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) and a unique human model of early deaf adults with varying amounts and qualities of language exposure. The results showed that early deaf adults with reduced early language exposure had reduced semantic sensitivity in the left dorsal anterior temporal lobe (dATL) compared to early deaf adults who acquired sign language from birth. This finding provides positive, causal evidence that language experience drives the neural semantic representation in the dATL, highlighting the role of language in forming human neural semantic structures beyond nonverbal sensory experiences. The study also discussed the implications of these findings for neurodevelopment more generally and the possibility that language-derived knowledge neural systems may lay the foundation for the efficient storage and manipulation of semantic knowledge, particularly abstract knowledge without tangible and consistent sensorimotor referents.
 Replay, the sequential reactivation of neural ensembles in the hippocampus, is a crucial mechanism for memory processing. While place cells' activity is used to encode behavioral episodes through both rate and place representations, replay has primarily been defined based on place information. In this study, researchers investigated the role of rate information during replay in rats running along two novel linear tracks. They observed that place cells in dorsal CA1 could modulate their firing rate between replay events of two different contexts, independent of place information. This rate modulation mirrors the same pattern observed during behavior and can be used to discriminate between contexts. The findings suggest that hippocampal memory processes rely on two complementary neural representations: place and rate.The researchers recorded extracellularly from dorsal CA1 in five male Lister-hooded rats, which were trained to run back and forth along two linear tracks to collect a liquid reward at each end. They observed global remapping of place cells between the two tracks, with the majority of place fields shifting their location and/or modulating their firing rate. They used Bayesian decoding to detect replay sequences of each linear track and identified statistically significant replay trajectories.To investigate the role of rate information during replay, they compared the place fields' peak in-field firing rate differences between tracks to the difference in average peak instantaneous rates during significant replay events. They found that the difference in peak in-field firing rate between tracks was predictive of the difference in average peak instantaneous rates during replay events from both tracks during the post-exploration period (POST). However, this was not the case during the pre-exploration period (PRE).The researchers also tested their findings using alternative metrics for replay firing rate and place fields firing rate, as well as different criteria for significant replay events and place cells. They found that their results were consistent across these variations. Overall, their findings suggest that contextually driven rate modulation between two behavioral episodes is maintained during offline replay.
 This study investigates the role of PARL, a mitochondrial intra-membrane rhomboid protease, in male infertility caused by impaired spermatogenesis. PARL is linked to mitochondrial encephalopathies, including Leigh syndrome, and is essential for maintaining mitochondrial fitness. In PARL-deficient mice, early testicular atrophy and a complete arrest of spermatogenesis during meiotic prophase I occur, independent of neurodegeneration. The spermatocytes exhibit severe mitochondrial ultrastructural abnormalities, including defects in the electron transfer chain, disrupted coenzyme Q (CoQ) biosynthesis, and metabolic rewiring. These defects lead to arrested spermatocytes undergoing ferroptosis, a regulated cell death modality characterized by uncontrolled lipid peroxidation. The findings suggest that mitochondrial defects induced by PARL depletion act as an initiating trigger for ferroptosis in primary spermatocytes through simultaneous effects on GPX4 and CoQ, two major inhibitors of ferroptosis. The study sheds new light on the potential role of ferroptosis in the pathogenesis of mitochondrial diseases and male infertility, warranting further investigation.
 In this study, the researchers aimed to uncover the mechanisms behind the protective effects of fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21) on nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) using APOE*3-Leiden . CETP mice, a well-established model for human-like metabolic diseases. FGF21 was overexpressed in the liver through an adeno-associated virus 8 (AAV8) vector, followed by administration of a high-fat high-cholesterol diet for 23 weeks. The results showed that FGF21 prevented hepatic lipotoxicity, accompanied by activation of thermogenic tissues and attenuation of adipose tissue inflammation. It also improved hyperglycemia and hypertriglyceridemia and upregulated hepatic programs involved in fatty acid oxidation and cholesterol removal. Furthermore, FGF21 inhibited hepatic inflammation, as evidenced by reduced Kupffer cell (KC) activation, diminished monocyte infiltration, and lower accumulation of monocyte-derived macrophages. Additionally, FGF21 decreased lipid- and scar-associated macrophages, which correlated with less hepatic fibrosis as demonstrated by reduced collagen accumulation. Collectively, hepatic FGF21 overexpression limits hepatic lipotoxicity, inflammation, and fibrogenesis by blocking hepatic lipid influx and accumulation through combined endocrine and autocrine signaling, respectively, and preventing the accumulation of pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic macrophages in the liver.
 The Neurodata Without Borders (NWB) data language is an open-source, standardized approach for describing neurophysiology data and metadata. NWB addresses the challenges of heterogeneity and evolution in neurophysiology experiments by providing a unified framework through its novel data language, which can co-evolve with the needs of the neuroscience community. NWB enables precise communication about neural data, supports reproducibility, interchange, and reuse of diverse neurophysiology data, and is foundational for the Distributed Archives for Neurophysiology Data Integration (DANDI) data repository. NWB's design principles include a specification language, a data standard schema, APIs, and storage backends, all of which are factored out as the Hierarchical Data Modeling Framework (HDMF) to make NWB accessible to users and developers. NWB's ecosystem includes tools for data acquisition, processing, analysis, and publication, and supports experiment planning, data acquisition, processing, and analysis to publication and reuse. NWB is a critical component of the neurophysiology data ecosystem, as it allows scientists to identify unmet needs and contribute new tools to address them, ensuring that neurophysiology data is Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable (FAIR).
 Influenza A virus (IAV) infection causes respiratory tract disease and seasonal epidemics, with H1N1 strains identified as the causal agent for pandemics in 1918 and 2009. Beyond respiratory disease, IAV infections have been linked to neurological consequences such as encephalitis lethargica and narcolepsy. The mechanisms behind these neurological disturbances are not well understood, but it is believed that even non-neurotropic strains can infiltrate the brain and cause neurological damage.A recent study used intranasal infections with H1N1 pdm09 in female mice and single-nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq) to follow changes in the transcriptional landscape of cell populations in the medial hypothalamus. The study found changes in all populations during the peak of disease, with a change in cell state in microglia at early infection and later strong effects in astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Interestingly, after the mice have recovered from the acute infection, all non-neuronal cell types return to their resting state, while neurons show long-lasting changes of the transcriptome even after full recovery.The study also found that viral infection of the olfactory bulb using H1N1 pdm09 is comparable to previous studies using the non-neurotropic H1N1 strain PR8. However, the study did not find neuroinflammatory processes in the hypothalamus, or if the here-chosen time point of 3 dpi might be too late to capture innate immune activation in the CNS. The study identified a lack of RNA sequencing studies focusing solely on molecular changes in the hypothalamus during non-neurotropic IAV challenges and suggested that different molecular changes based on viral strain or between brain regions are expected and further studies are needed to resolve this.The study also found that many of the neuronal subpopulations respond with a similar pattern when the organism is challenged by an infection, with changes including inhibition of genes contributing to metabolic and translational processes in the neurons. While most neuronal subpopulations follow this same regulatory pattern, POMC+ neurons show bigger and more unique changes in gene regulation following a peripheral influenza infection. Microglia, the resident immune cells of the brain, can have different immunological functions and properties based on their activation state. The study found that microglia are also in the medial hypothalamus a main immune orchestrating cell population, shifting from their homeostatic state towards a pro-inflammatory microglia population during 3 and 7 dpi. This shift is completely resolved after recovery at 23 dpi.The study also found that oligodendrocytes and astrocytes between 144-244 genes were up- or down-regulated at 3 and/or 7 dpi, accompanied by a shift of the cells in the dimensional reduction plot of the not integrated data, especially at 7 dpi. In oligodendrocytes, this was accompanied by an up-regulation of genes involved in stress-related and glucocorticoid pathways. The same was not seen in the astrocyte sub-cluster. The study identified significantly regulated GO terms associated with transport pathways in oligodendrocytes, with a strong up-regulation of genes in these terms at 3 and 7 dpi. Only mitochondrial transport processes and transmembrane transport included down-regulated genes. Genes associated with GABAergic transport was up-regulated in oligodendrocytes uniquely at 7 dpi. Marker genes for the astrocytic 7-dpi cluster were identified as Aldh1a1, Lrrc8a, and Zfhx3. Zfhx3 showed a very distinct expression in this cluster. For astrocytes, the GO term oxidoreductase activity was highly and uniquely enriched at 7 dpi. Accordingly, the oxidoreductase genes were found to be highly up-regulated in the 7-dpi cluster, with only a few being also regulated at 3 dpi and non at 23 dpi.Taken together, the data suggest that an IAV infection induces slowly evolving transcriptional changes in oligodendrocytes and astrocytes, leading to the appearance of distinct sub-populations of these cell types at 
 In the study, researchers investigated the mechanisms and mediators of plasticity upon apicobasal polarity loss in epithelial cells, which is a key event in epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and tumorigenesis. They used Drosophila ovaries as a model system, where inducing polarity-gene l(2)gl (Lgl) knockdown causes invasive multilayering of the follicular epithelium.Through single-cell RNA sequencing, they discovered distinct phenotypes and characterized the underlying gene expression. They identified a genetic requirement of Keap1-Nrf2 signaling in promoting multilayer formation of Lgl-KD cells. Ectopic expression of Keap1 increased the volume of delaminated follicle cells and enhanced their invasive behavior, with significant changes to the cytoskeleton.The findings describe the comprehensive transcriptome of cells within the follicle cell tumor model at the single-cell resolution and identify a previously unappreciated link between Keap1-Nrf2 signaling and cell plasticity at early tumorigenesis. The study provides insights into the mechanisms underlying the earliest stages of tumorigenesis following polarity loss.
 This study investigated the behavioural and neural computations that differentiate learning from social and non-social information sources. Participants took part in a tightly controlled within-subject design, where they made trial-wise confidence judgements about the advice of social and non-social information sources. The results showed that participants used different strategies when setting intervals to express their confidence in the performances of social advisors as opposed to non-social advisors. The study used a computational approach to test the interplay of two belief estimates that impact interval setting: the belief in how accurate the advice/prediction is and the subjective uncertainty in that belief. The study found that participants were less influenced by their subjective uncertainty when estimating the performances of social advisors and changed and updated their beliefs about social cues less than about non-social cues when they observed the outcomes of their predictions. The study also found that participants experience a steeper decline of subjective uncertainty in their beliefs about the accuracy of social advice, resulting in a narrower prior distribution, during the next encounter with the same advisor. The study used Bayesian simulations to investigate how uncertainty about beliefs changed from trial to trial and showed that belief updates about non-social cues were consistent with a noisier update process that diminished the impact of experiences over the longer term. The study suggests that participants attribute intentions and motivations to social agents, leading them to assume stability in the performances of social advisors, but not non-social cues. The study found that the same algorithm was able to explain social and non-social learning, but the extent to which the algorithm was recruited when learning about social compared to non-social information differed. The study used ROIs derived from previous studies to show that dmPFC and pTPJ represent a combination of present and past confidence judgements that are made about social advisors and that they do this more strongly for social than for non-social cues. The study used a Bayesian model to guide the analyses and found that participants’ behaviour and uncertainty estimates were influenced by the social or non-social framing of the task. The study used a general linear model (GLM) analysis to predict participants’ interval setting and found that participants’ subjective uncertainty in their accuracy belief was a significant predictor of their interval setting. The study used a learning index to measure the rate at which evidence observed at the time of the prediction error is integrated into the next estimate and found that participants updated their intervals by less than the prediction error that they observed, indicating under-adjustment of the interval setting. The study also found that participants were more likely to select predictors that were more accurate in their predictions and that participants were able to do this by observing the angular errors associated with their predictions. The study used a Bayesian approach to estimate participants’ beliefs about the performance of a social and non-social advisor/predictor and found that participants’ beliefs were influenced by the social or non-social framing of the task. The study used a GLM to predict changes in interval settings as a function of model-based and model-free regressors and found that participants’ prediction error was a significant predictor of their interval setting change. The study used a Bayesian model to test whether the integration of new evidence differed between social and non-social conditions and found that participants reduced their uncertainty quicker when observing social information and that new information can be flexibly integrated during the belief update. The study used a Bayesian model to simulate trial-wise interval setting for each participant according to the observations they made and found that an increase in noise led to simulation behaviour that resembled behavioural patterns observed in the non-social condition. The study used a Bayesian model to estimate participants’ beliefs about the distribution that determined the observed angular error and found that participants’ beliefs were updated by multiplication of a prior belief and a likelihood distribution, resulting in a posterior belief. The study used a Bayesian model to estimate the posterior pdf across parameter space and normalized it to ensure that probabilities across all sigma values added up to one. The study used a GLM to predict participants’ interval setting and found that participants’ subjective uncertainty in their accuracy belief was a significant predictor of their interval setting. The study used a learning index to measure the rate at which evidence observed at the time of the prediction error is integrated into the next estimate and found that participants updated their intervals by less than the prediction error that they observed, indicating under-adjustment of the interval setting. The study used a Bayesian model to test whether the integration of new evidence differed between social and non-social conditions and found that participants reduced their uncertainty quicker when observing social information and that new information can be flexibly integrated during the belief update. The study used a Bayesian model to simulate trial-wise interval setting for each participant according to the observations they made and found that an increase in noise led to simulation behaviour that resembled behavioural patterns
 The study presented in the text aims to develop a molecular model of neurotransmitter release based on the properties of the synaptic protein synaptotagmin (yt). The model is based on the reaction scheme of a single C2B domain, which can bind PI(4,5)P2 and two Ca2+ ions. The model assumes the simplest case of simultaneous association of both Ca2+ ions to the C2B domain. The model also includes the positive allosteric stabilization of the dual-bound state, which promotes fusion by lowering the energy barrier. The model predicts that each C2B domain engaging in dual Ca2+/PI(4,5)P2 binding lowers the energy barrier for fusion by ~5 kBT, and most fusion events occur when three syts actively reduce the energy barrier for fast SV fusion. The model also explores the consequences of putative mutations affecting Ca2+/PI(4,5)P2 binding and/or the allosteric coupling between the binding sites of both species. The study concludes that allosterically stabilized Ca2+/PI(4,5)P2 dual binding to the C2B domain forms the molecular basis for synaptotagmins to exert their cooperative control of neurotransmitter release.
 Sauropterygia was a diverse clade of Mesozoic marine reptiles spanning the Early Triassic to Late Cretaceous, traditionally divided into two major lineages: the short-necked, durophagous Placodontia and the long-necked Eosauropterygia. However, the early evolutionary history of sauropterygians and their relationships with other diapsid reptiles are still incompletely understood.A new saurosphargid from the Early Triassic of South China, Prosaurosphargis yingzishanensis, represents the earliest known occurrence of the clade. An updated phylogenetic analysis focusing on the interrelationships among diapsid reptiles recovers saurosphargids as nested within sauropterygians, forming a clade with eosauropterygians to the exclusion of placodonts. Furthermore, a clade comprising Eusaurosphargis and Palatodonta is recovered as the sauropterygian sister-group within Sauropterygomorpha tax. nov.The phylogenetic position of several Early and Middle Triassic sauropterygians, such as Atopodentatus, Hanosaurus, Majiashanosaurus, and Corosaurus, is also clarified, elucidating the early evolutionary assembly of the sauropterygian body plan. The study provides evidence for the rapid diversification of sauropterygians in the aftermath of the Permo-Triassic mass extinction event and emphasizes the importance of broad taxonomic sampling in reconstructing phylogenetic relationships among extinct taxa.The new saurosphargid, Prosaurosphargis yingzishanensis, is described as having dorsal transverse processes that are relatively short mediolaterally and broad anteroposteriorly, and rows of rudimentary osteoderms on its body flanks. This indicates that the osteoderms in Pomolispondylus likely represent a late stage of osteoderm reduction in the lineage leading to Eosauropterygia, rather than the first stages of osteoderm development in the saurosphargid lineage.The analysis also recovers a close relationship between Archosauromorpha and Testudines within a monophyletic Archelosauria, which is strongly supported by molecular data but only recently recovered in a phylogenetic analysis using a morphology-only dataset. The study demonstrates the importance of including a broad sample of outgroup taxa in phylogenetic analyses and choosing their stratigraphically oldest and/or anatomically most plesiomorphic representatives as operational taxonomic units to accurately reconstruct the phylogenetic relationships between major extant and extinct reptilian lineages.
 This study aimed to investigate the reactive and reversible effects of smoking on DNA methylation in human blood cells using a large cohort of monozygotic twin pairs. The study identified 13 differentially methylated CpGs in current smoking discordant monozygotic twin pairs, with eight of these sites showing lower methylation in smoking twins compared to their non-smoking co-twins. The methylation differences were smaller in former smoking discordant pairs and current/former smoking discordant pairs compared to current/never smoking discordant pairs. The results suggest that smoking-associated methylation patterns in blood cells are largely reversible upon quitting smoking. The study also found that five additional epigenome-wide significant CpGs were identified in current/former smoking discordant pairs. All 13 differentially methylated CpGs and 10 of the 13 CpGs identified in former smoking discordant pairs have been previously associated with smoking. The study also examined the overlap of methylation differences in smoking discordant twin pairs with loci that have a causal effect on smoking and found that three of the 13 epigenome-wide significant DMPs detected in smoking discordant monozygotic pairs were located within 1 Mb of a GWAS locus associated with smoking initiation. The study concludes that monozygotic twin pairs offer a unique opportunity to assess smoking-reactive methylation patterns and examine the extent to which effects are reversible upon quitting smoking.
 The structure and function of the vertebrate retina have been extensively studied through isolated, ex vivo preparations. However, understanding retinal function in awake animals remains elusive. In this study, single-unit extracellular recordings were performed in the optic tract of head-fixed mice to compare the output of awake, anesthetized, and ex vivo retinas. While visual response properties were overall similar across conditions, awake retinal output had faster kinetics with less variability in response latencies, a larger dynamic range, and higher firing activity. Modeling analyses further showed that awake responses convey comparable total information but less efficiently, allowing for a linear population decoder to perform significantly better than anesthetized or ex vivo responses. These results suggest that the retina employs dense coding in vivo, rather than sparse efficient coding as previously assumed from ex vivo studies.
 Fixing cells with paraformaldehyde (PFA) is a common method used to preserve biomolecular transactions in living cells for various biological techniques. However, the effect of PFA fixation on liquid–liquid phase separation (LLPS) behaviors is not well understood. In this study, the authors compared images of U2OS cells expressing intrinsically disordered proteins (IDRs) known to undergo LLPS before and after PFA fixation. They found that fixation can both enhance and diminish putative LLPS behaviors, and in some cases, even cause artificial puncta to appear in cells without detectable puncta in the live condition. The authors also established a kinetic model of fixation in the context of dynamic protein–protein interactions and demonstrated that protein localization in fixed cells depends on an intricate balance of protein–protein interaction dynamics, the overall rate of fixation, and notably, the difference between fixation rates of different proteins. The findings reveal that PFA fixation changes the appearance of LLPS from living cells, present a caveat in studying LLPS using fixation-based methods, and suggest a mechanism underlying the fixation artifact.
 The bladder-chip model is a novel in vitro system designed to mimic the bladder architecture by co-culturing human bladder epithelial and microvascular endothelial cells in a device with flow channels for urine and nutritive media, respectively. The model allows for the application of linear strain to mimic bladder filling and voiding cycles, and the use of antibiotics to study bacterial persistence. Uropathogenic Escherichia coli (UPEC) attachment and invasion of bladder epithelial cells is sensitive to fluidic shear stress, and the bladder-chip model enables the study of UPEC infection under low shear stress conditions.Upon infection, neutrophils are recruited to the site of infection and form neutrophil swarms and neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) to control bacterial growth. However, not all neutrophils are able to control bacterial growth, and some bacteria within IBCs are protected from neutrophil-mediated killing. During the recovery period, a significant fraction of IBCs reseed new foci of infection through bacterial shedding and host cell exfoliation. These insights suggest that IBCs play a significant role in bacterial persistence and reseeding of bladder infections, with important consequences for non-compliance with antibiotic regimens. The bladder-chip model offers a valuable tool for studying the complex dynamics of urinary tract infections and the role of IBCs in bacterial persistence and antibiotic resistance.
 This study investigates the flexibility of Escherichia coli's cellular amination network by constructing a glutamate auxotrophic strain and testing its ability to grow on various amino acids. The results reveal that several amino acids complemented the auxotrophy either by producing glutamate via transamination reactions or by their conversion to glutamate. The study also identified aspartate transaminase AspC as a major connector between many amino acids and glutamate. Furthermore, new amino acids were extended to the transaminase network, and d-amino acid dehydrogenase (DadA) was identified as an intracellular amino acid sink removing substrates from transaminase reactions. The study also introduced ammonium assimilation routes producing aspartate or leucine. Overall, the findings reveal the high flexibility of the cellular amination network in terms of transaminase promiscuity and adaptability to new connections and ammonium entry points.
 This study investigates the response of the coral symbiont alga Breviolum to low pH environments and the mechanism involved in monosaccharide secretion. Breviolum was grown in normal and acidic media, and the results showed that low pH significantly suppressed algal growth, caused cellular changes, and increased monosaccharide secretion. The cell wall structures of Breviolum cells cultured at low pH were more exfoliated, and the cell surface structures were wrinkled. Gene expression analysis revealed that low pH upregulated genes associated with cellulose metabolism, including cellulase and glycoside hydrolase. The cellulase gene was identified as a differentially expressed gene, and its activity was inhibited by the cellulase inhibitor, glucopyranoside, suggesting that cell wall degradation is involved in monosaccharide secretion. Overall, the findings suggest that low pH signals the cellulase-mediated release of monosaccharides from the algal cell wall as an environmental response in coral reef ecosystems.
 Nephronophthisis (NPHP) is a recessive renal cystic disease characterized by renal fibrosis and cyst formation, accounting for a significant portion of end-stage renal disease in children and young adults. Currently, no targeted therapy is available for this disease. Among the over 25 NPHP genes identified, INVS/NPHP2 is one of them. In mice, global knockout of Invs leads to renal fibrosis and cysts. However, the precise contribution of different cell types and the relationship between epithelial cysts and interstitial fibrosis remains undefined.To dissect tissue-specific function and mechanism of interstitial fibrosis resulting from defective Invs, two conditional mouse knockout models were generated: (1) targeting Invs deletion in epithelial cells of the distal nephron (Invsflox/flox;Cdh16-Cre mice), and (2) deleting Invs in stromal cells (Invsflox/flox;Foxd1-Cre mice). Epithelial-specific knockout of Invs resulted in renal cyst formation and severe stromal fibrosis, while stromal-specific knockout displayed no observable phenotypes up to the young adult stage.Further investigation revealed that increased cell proliferation and myofibroblast activation occurred early during disease progression and preceded detectable cyst formation in the Invsflox/flox;Cdh16-Cre kidney. Concomitant removal of cilia partially suppressed the phenotypes of the Invsflox/flox;Cdh16-Cre mutant kidney, suggesting a significant interaction of cilia and Invs function in vivo.Finally, the histone deacetylase inhibitor valproic acid (VPA) reduced cyst burden, decreased cell proliferation, and ameliorated kidney function decline in Invs mutant mice, suggesting VPA as a potential candidate drug for treating NPHP.
 The extinct Steller's sea cow (Hydrodamalis gigas) was a whale-sized marine mammal that lived in the North Pacific during the Miocene to 1768. Despite first-hand accounts of their biology, little is known about the physiological adjustments underlying their evolution to exploit the harsh coastal climate. A study revealed that the adult-expressed hemoglobin (Hb) of this sirenian has a fixed amino acid replacement at an otherwise invariant position (β/δ82Lys→Asn) that alters multiple aspects of Hb function.First, the functional characterization of recombinant sirenian Hb proteins demonstrated that the Hb-O2 affinity of this sub-Arctic species was less affected by temperature than those of living tropical sea cows. This phenotype presumably safeguarded O2 delivery to cool peripheral tissues and largely arises from a reduced intrinsic temperature sensitivity of the H. gigas protein. Additionally, the β/δ82Asn→Lys mutant Hb further revealed that this exchange renders Steller's sea cow Hb unresponsive to the potent intraerythrocytic allosteric effector 2, 3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG), a radical modification that is the first documented example of this phenotype among mammals.Furthermore, the β/δ82Lys→Asn replacement underlies the secondary evolution of a reduced blood-O2 affinity phenotype that would have promoted heightened tissue and maternal/fetal O2 delivery. This conclusion is supported by analyses of two Steller's sea cow prenatal Hb proteins (Hb Gower I; ζ2ε2 and HbF; α2γ2) that suggest an exclusive embryonic stage expression pattern and reveal uncommon replacements in H. gigas HbF (γ38Thr→Ile and γ101Glu→Asp) that increased Hb-O2 affinity relative to dugong HbF.Finally, the β/δ82Lys→Asn replacement increases protein solubility, which may have elevated red blood cell Hb content within both the adult and fetal circulations and contributed to meeting the elevated metabolic requirements and fetal growth rates associated with this species' cold adaptation.The Steller's sea cow's underwater foraging time is dictated by onboard oxygen stores and the efficiency of their use. While sirenians are proficient divers, they do not exhibit the greatly elevated body O2 stores or an enhanced dive reflex common to other marine mammals. Instead, their secondary transition to aquatic life coincided with a rapid evolution of their Hb encoding genes due to gene conversion events with a neighboring globin pseudogene. The resulting high blood-O2 affinity phenotype presumably allows extant sea cows to maximize O2 extraction from the lungs during submergence at the cost of somewhat reduced O2 offloading, thus lowering the overall metabolic intensity and fostering a prolonged breath-hold capacity. However, the limited thermoregulatory capacity of extant sea cows confines them to subtropical waters. Fossil evidence and first-hand accounts of the sub-Arctic Steller's sea cow provide insights into the biological and morphological adaptations of this extinct species, while retrieved ancient genetic material has been instrumental in clarifying its phylogenetic affinities and population history.
 The study describes the use of the RasV12 gene to generate continuous cell lines from Drosophila melanogaster primary cultures, specifically for muscle, glial, and epithelial cell types. The researchers used lineage-restricted RasV12 expression with tissue-specific Gal4 drivers to produce targeted cells with a competitive advantage, resulting in the generation of cell lines with expected cell-type-specific phenotypes. The approach was successful in generating cell lines for muscle, glial, and epithelial cell types, and could potentially be used to generate lines for any cell type with an appropriate Gal4 driver. The researchers also tested different genotypes to determine if the success rate could be improved, but found that primary cultures expressing RasV12 without modulation or a survival factor produced lines with similar success rates for the btl-Gal4 or 24B/how-Gal4 drivers. The cells will be valuable for both low- and high-throughput approaches, including genetic or compound screens, and most of the cells have an attP-flanked cassette, making them amenable to insertion of transgenes. The cells will also be useful for generating disease models and investigating cell form and function in co-cultures. The method and the cells will be useful for generating new cell lines in the desired mutant background or editing existing cell lines using CRISPR or insertion of transgenes using the attP site. The researchers used the following fly stocks for creating primary cell lines: Gal4 drivers (24B/how-Gal4, repo-Gal4, btl-Gal4, Act5C-GeneSwitch-Gal4), transgenes (UAS-RasV12, UAS-RasV12 with RMCE site, UAS-GFP nuclear, bratdsRNA, UAS-p35 baculovirus death inhibitor, and Gal80ts), and methods included egg collection, embryo disruption, and cell culture.
 Multiciliated cells (MCCs) are specialized epithelial cells that line various surfaces and assemble multiple motile cilia for fluid flow. During their differentiation, MCCs undergo massive centriole amplification, which is essential for multiciliogenesis. PLK4, a master regulator of centriole biogenesis, is required for centriole assembly in cycling cells but its role in MCCs is unclear.To address this question, researchers created genetically engineered mouse models and demonstrated that both PLK4 protein and kinase activity are crucial for centriole amplification in MCCs. Tracheal epithelial cells that fail centriole amplification accumulate large assemblies of centriole proteins and do not undergo apical surface area expansion. These results suggest that the initial stages of centriole assembly are conserved between cycling cells and MCCs and that centriole amplification and surface area expansion are coordinated events.PLK4 is recruited to the surface of both parent centrioles and deuterosomes in MCCs. However, recent work has shown that inhibiting PLK4 kinase activity with the ATP-competitive small molecule centrinone has no impact on centriole amplification in mouse multiciliated ependymal cells or mTECs. ShRNA-mediated depletion of PLK4 modestly delays centriole assembly in mTECs but does not reduce the final number of centrioles produced or the fraction of cells forming motile cilia. These data suggest that there are distinct requirements for PLK4 in promoting centriole assembly in cycling cells and differentiating mouse MCCs.The researchers used genetic approaches to define the requirements of PLK4 protein and kinase activity for centriole amplification in MCCs. They also investigated the impact of blocking centriole amplification on the differentiation and surface area scaling of MCCs. Their data show that PLK4 protein and kinase activity are required for centriole assembly in mouse MCCs, demonstrating that the early stages of centriole assembly are similar in cycling cells and MCCs. Moreover, they show that centriole amplification drives an increase in apical surface area in airway MCCs, suggesting that increased centriole number is a central driver of surface area scaling in MCCs.
 This study investigates the origin of epithelial cells that become incorporated into the newly formed luminal epithelium during endometrial repair using a mouse model and single cell RNA sequencing. The researchers identified a novel population of PDGFRb+ mesenchymal stromal cells that developed a unique transcriptomic signature in response to endometrial breakdown/repair. These cells expressed genes usually considered specific to epithelial cells and in silico trajectory analysis suggested they were stromal fibroblasts in transition to becoming epithelial cells. To confirm their hypothesis, the researchers used a lineage tracing strategy to compare the fate of stromal fibroblasts and stromal perivascular cells. They demonstrated that stromal fibroblasts can undergo a mesenchyme to epithelial transformation and become incorporated into the re-epithelialised luminal surface of the repaired tissue. This study is the first to discover a novel population of wound-responsive, plastic endometrial stromal fibroblasts that contribute to the rapid restoration of an intact luminal epithelium during endometrial repair. These findings have implications for understanding endometrial pathologies and other mucosal tissues.
