 Scrub typhus is a zoonotic disease caused by bacteria of the genus Orientia, which has recently expanded beyond the Asia-Pacific region, including Chile. The disease is transmitted by larvae of trombiculid mites, known as chiggers, which are also the reservoir of the orientiae through transovarial and transstadial transmission. Rodents serve as the main hosts of chiggers and are crucial to understanding the distribution and emergence of scrub typhus.On Chiloé Island in southern Chile, six sites were identified as probable hot spots of scrub typhus based on previous studies. During the austral summer of 2018, small mammals were live-trapped at these sites, and a total of 244 rodents belonging to seven species were captured. Chiggers were detected on all seven rodent species, with a 55% prevalence rate. The most abundant rodent species, Abrothrix olivacea, represented 77% of all infected animals.Three morphotypes of trombiculid mites were identified: Herpetacarus sp., Quadraseta sp., and Paratrombicula sp. Herpetacarus sp. was the most abundant (93% of infested rodents) and occurred on all rodent species and in all sites except Site 3. The other two species co-parasitized on a few rodents only in Site 3. The overall prevalence of chiggers in different sites showed significant variations, ranging from 25% to 78%. Orientia DNA was detected in 15.8% of mite pools, all of which belonged to the genus Herpetacarus. The three most abundant rodent species, Abrothrix olivacea, Abrothrix sanborni, and Geoxus valdivianus, harbored all Orientia-positive mites.This study is the first to document the presence of rodent-associated trombiculid mites infected with Orientia sp. on Chiloé Island, providing crucial information for understanding the distribution and emergence of scrub typhus in South America.
 During the 2015-2017 Zika epidemic, dengue and chikungunya, two other viral diseases transmitted by the same mosquito vector, were also circulating. The clinical presentation of these diseases can vary, making it challenging to differentially diagnose them. To quantify the potential extent of misdiagnosis during this epidemic, we applied a method using empirical estimates of diagnostic sensitivity and specificity to revise reported case estimates.Using data from the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) for 43 countries in the Americas, we differentiated between confirmed and suspected cases based on laboratory diagnosis versus clinical diagnosis. We assumed that confirmed cases were identified using either reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) or IgM assays against ZIKV. We assumed that PRNT90, a confirmatory test for ZIKV, was not used extensively due to its cost and logistical complexity.We estimated that during the fourth quarter of 2015, before widespread reporting of Zika cases, there were approximately 74,200 (95% CrI: 35,400-109,500) disease episodes caused by ZIKV that were misdiagnosed as dengue or chikungunya cases under the molecular diagnostic scenario. Similarly, under the serological diagnostic scenario, there were approximately 3,100 (-39,100-67,100) disease episodes misdiagnosed during the same period.As reported Zika cases increased and peaked in 2016, the intensity of misdiagnosis also increased, but the direction of misdiagnosis differed by country and laboratory testing method. The differences between the molecular and serological diagnostic scenarios were most notable at the peak of the epidemic, reflecting the much lower sensitivities and specificities associated with serological diagnostics.Our revised estimates of the Zika epidemic under the molecular diagnostic scenario suggest that the epidemic was nearly 40% larger than case report data alone would suggest. These results were driven by the relative numbers of reported cases of Zika and the two other diseases and varied over time, across countries, and with respect to level of data aggregation.However, our estimates substantially underestimate the true number of ZIKV infections that likely occurred, as they do not account for unreported infections. Additionally, our approach had some limitations, including the inability to explore differences in the extent of misdiagnosis between Zika and dengue or chikungunya, the reliance on a limited set of empirical estimates of diagnostic sensitivity and specificity, and the lack of information about where and when molecular versus serological approaches were used.Despite these limitations, our findings underscore the importance of considering the observation process through which passive surveillance data is collated and the need to develop methods that disentangle which pathogen is circulating at a given time and place. This could help make it more feasible to implement pathogen-specific response measures, such as proactively testing pregnant women for ZIKV during a Zika epidemic.
 Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) is a partially double-stranded DNA virus that replicates through reverse transcription of a pregenomic (pg) RNA intermediate in hepatocytes. HBV RNA can be detected in virus-like particles (VLPs) in chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patient serum and has been utilized as a biomarker for intrahepatic cccDNA activity in treated patients. However, the biogenesis and molecular characteristics of serum HBV RNA remain unclear. In this study, researchers found that encapsidated serum HBV RNA predominantly consists of pgRNA, which are detergent- and ribonuclease-resistant. They demonstrated that pgRNA-containing nonenveloped capsids and a minor population of pgRNA-containing virions are present in cell culture supernatant. The formation of pgRNA-virion requires both capsid assembly and viral envelope proteins, which can be inhibited by capsid assembly modulators and an envelope–knockout mutant, respectively. Furthermore, pgRNA-virion utilizes the multivesicular body pathway for egress in a similar way as DNA-virion morphogenesis. Northern blotting, RT-PCR, and 3’ RACE assays revealed that serum/supernatant HBV pgRNA are mainly spliced and devoid of the 3’-terminal sequences. pgRNA-virion collected from cells treated with a reversible HBV priming inhibitor L-FMAU was unable to establish infection in HepG2-NTCP cells. In summary, serum HBV RNA is secreted in noninfectious virion-like particle as spliced and poly (A)–free pgRNA. This study sheds light on the molecular biology of serum HBV RNA in HBV life cycle and aids the development of serum HBV RNA as a novel biomarker for CHB diagnosis and treatment prognosis.
 Tuberculosis caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) is a major public health concern, with the emergence of drug-resistant strains exacerbating the issue. Mtb encodes multiple DNA repair pathways, including base excision repair (BER), which plays a crucial role in maintaining genomic integrity. Mtb possesses a GC-rich genome, making it susceptible to cytosine deaminations and resulting in uracils in the DNA. UDGs encoded by ung and udgB initiate the repair process, and their deletion was investigated for its impact on the pathogen's adaptation.Gene replacement mutants of uracil DNA glycosylases were generated, and the double KO mutant, RvΔdKO, exhibited a remarkably higher spontaneous mutation rate and higher survival rates in guinea pigs. Competition assays revealed the superior fitness of RvΔdKO over Rv in both ex vivo and in vivo conditions. The accumulation of mutations in RvΔdKO led to the identification of drug targets, allowing for the facile identification of resistance mechanisms.The findings suggest that compromised DNA repair results in the accumulation of mutations, and a subset of these mutations drives adaptation in the host. This property can be utilized to better understand the evolution of drug resistance in Mtb and potentially identify new targets for therapeutic intervention.
 The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) in rats and mice is composed of approximately 10,000 heterogeneous clock cells, yet it maintains a high degree of circadian phase coherence. This coherence is believed to be achieved through multiple cell-to-cell coupling mechanisms, including action potential (AP)-mediated connectivity. However, little is known about the morphology of AP-mediated connectivity at a cellular scale. In this study, researchers explored various network morphologies to identify plausible features of SCN networks.They considered network models reflecting an experimentally obtained 'indegree distribution' and a 'physical range distribution of afferent clock cells.' They then evaluated the models based on several criteria, including level of phase dispersal and direction of wave propagation, phase-resetting ability, and decay rate of perturbation-induced "phase-singularities."Successful, realistic networks shared several features: 1) a positive correlation between 'indegree' and 'outdegree'; 2) cells in the SCN ventrolateral region (core) having a much larger total degree than those in the dorsal medial region (shell); 3) the number of intra-core edges being about 7.5 times that of intra-shell edges; and 4) the distance probability density function for afferent connections fitting well to a beta function.The researchers simulated various network morphologies, covering nine different types of indegree-outdegree relations and different levels of clustering and assortativity coefficients. They required that the shell's phase be ahead of the core's phase by at least one hour and that the core recover its phase coherence faster than the shell after regional cell-to-cell phase coherence is disrupted.The chosen network morphologies had two properties: 1) indegree and outdegree were positively correlated; and 2) the nodes in the core had many more edges than those in the shell. These findings could guide future explorations on the AP-mediated clock cell connectome within the SCN.
 The Lexical Categorization Model (LCM) is a hypothesis that explains the functional role of the left-ventral occipito-temporal cortex (lvOT) during reading. The LCM assumes that lvOT optimizes linguistic processing by allowing fast meaning access when words are familiar and filtering out orthographic strings without meaning. The model successfully simulates benchmark results from functional brain imaging studies and outperforms alternative models in predicting lvOT activation across three functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies.The LCM is based on the assumption that word recognition in the ventral visual stream involves word-likeness extraction followed by lexical categorization before one can access word meaning. Word-likeness is estimated using the orthographic Levenshtein distance (OLD20), which measures the similarity of any two strings of letters based on the number of insertions, deletions, substitutions, and transpositions of two adjacent letters. The LCM assumes that for words with high word-likeness, one can implement lexical categorizations with high certainty, while for words with intermediate word-likeness, the lexical categorization uncertainty is higher.The LCM rests on the assumption that lvOT implements lexical categorization to filter out perceived letter strings that are not known, and the uncertainty associated with this filter function in the face of overlapping distributions at intermediate levels of word-likeness reflects the difficulty to implement the lexical categorization. The information-theoretical concept of entropy is used to describe the non-linear response profile of lvOT, as it reflects the uncertainty of the lexical categorization given the word-likeness of the letter string.The LCM was evaluated using three fMRI studies and one behavioral training study. The results showed that the LCM successfully simulates published fMRI results and is supported by empirical evaluations using tailored stimulus sets that differentiate between alternative models. The word-likeness representation is estimated in brain regions posterior to word-sensitive lvOT cortex, and after non-words are filtered out by the categorization process, familiar words are passed through to higher-level cognitive processes such as lexical access and the extraction of word meaning, which are postulated to occur in downstream temporal and possibly inferior frontal areas.
 The circadian clock significantly influences the immune system, and disruption of circadian rhythms has been linked to inflammatory pathologies. Shift work, which disrupts the natural light-dark cycle, can cause serious health problems, including impairment in immune function. To better understand the mechanisms behind the weakened immune system in shift workers, researchers have developed a mathematical model of the mammalian pulmonary circadian clock coupled to an acute inflammation model in male and female rats.The model reproduces the clock gene expression in the lung and the immune response to various doses of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Under normal conditions, the model predicts that a host is more sensitive to LPS at circadian time (CT) CT12 due to a dynamic change of Interleukin 10 (IL-10), an anti-inflammatory cytokine. The key modulator of IL-10 activity throughout the circadian day is REV-ERB. The model also predicts a reversal of the times of lowest and highest sensitivity to LPS, with males and females exhibiting an exaggerated response to LPS at CT0, which is countered by a blunted immune response at CT12.Females produce fewer pro-inflammatory cytokines than males, but the extent of sequelae experienced by males and females varies across the circadian day. The model can serve as an essential component in an integrative model that will yield mechanistic understanding of how shift work-mediated circadian disruptions affect the inflammatory and other physiological responses.
 The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia faces a significant risk of introducing vector-borne tropical diseases, including dengue fever virus (DENV), due to rapid urbanization, global trade, and large numbers of visitors during Hajj and Umrah. This study estimated the cost of illness (COI) of DENV in Saudi Arabia from 2013 to 2017, using data from referral centers in the western region, which is the endemic region of the country.The study used a bottom-up approach to estimate direct costs based on actual costs calculated from a representative sample of patients treated in various hospitals. Indirect costs, which include productivity loss, were estimated using the human capital model based on gross domestic product adjusted for invalidity duration. The study observed the highest estimated costs in 2016, with over US$168.5 million total costs, including direct (US$29 million) and indirect (US$139.5 million) costs for 4415 confirmed cases. The total DENV COI for the five-year period was estimated as US$551 million for 15,369 patients.Productivity years loss accounted for 63.3% to 83.8% of the estimated total costs, depending on the year. The economic burden of dengue in Saudi Arabia is substantial, costing US$110.2 million per year, emphasizing the urgent need for an effective national prevention strategy to reduce morbidity and perform cost-savings.The study's limitations include the potential under-reporting of cases, which was adjusted by using an expansion factor of 3. The study also did not consider the costs of preventive measures, vector control, or surveillance programs, which may increase the overall costs. Future studies should assess the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of dengue vaccination campaigns and other preventive and surveillance programs in Saudi Arabia.Dengue fever is a significant global problem, causing a significant health economic burden, particularly in the Eastern Mediterranean Region of the World Health Organization. The economic burden of dengue is likely to be higher than other major infectious diseases, and the main outline indicates that the burden is remarkably enormous in low-income and middle-income countries. Costing methods, such as cost-consequence analysis, cost minimization analysis, and cost-of-illness analysis, can be used to investigate disease costs. COI studies evaluate the direct and/or indirect costs of a disease or its risk factors. The diagnostic and management approaches represent the main costly processes in dengue, and treatment remains symptomatic, with hospital admission required for severe cases, which may entail high costs. Indirect costs related to loss of productivity can emerge from decreased working days of patients or their families, travel, absence from schools or activities, etc., which may account for up to 60% to 70% of the total dengue costs. However, such indirect costs may be partly underestimated or difficult to estimate because they are often incurred by the patients or their families while other direct costs are readily available.In conclusion, the economic burden of dengue fever in Saudi Arabia is substantial, costing US$110.17 million per year, with productivity years loss accounting for approximately 80% of the total costs. Future studies should employ a multiregional approach, using standardized monetary units, quantifying cyclical patterns of the vector and health burden, and investigating the cost-effectiveness of a dengue vaccine to overcome potential biases and limitations. Intensified vector control should also be a critical component of health sector planning in Saudi Arabia, particularly during Hajj and Umrah, to prevent the transmission of dengue and other vector-borne neglected tropical diseases.
 This study investigates the presence and potential impact of nuclear lipid droplets (nLDs) in Caenorhabditis elegans intestinal and germ cells. The authors found that nLDs occur normally in intestinal and germ cells, but their distribution and potential effects differ between the two tissues. In intestinal cells, nLDs are associated with damage, including nuclear ruptures and the formation of large nuclear cysts. In contrast, germ cell nuclei appear relatively unchanged during the self-fertile period, and nearly all germ cells produce normal embryos when the apoptosis pathway is blocked. The authors propose that the lack of ER and the presence of a dense concentration of ribosomes in pachytene germ cells might contribute to the differences in nLD formation and impact between the two tissues. The study also identifies mutations in the COPI proteins COPA-1 and COPB-2 that result in an increase in nLDs in germ cells, suggesting a role for COPI in nLD formation. Overall, the findings provide new insights into the role and potential consequences of nLDs in different cellular contexts.
 The study investigates the mechanisms of neuronal damage caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus), a leading cause of bacterial meningitis. The researchers found that pneumococci interact with neurons through the pilus-1 adhesin RrgA and the cytotoxin pneumolysin (Ply), promoting adhesion, invasion, and neuronal death. Ply interacts with the neuronal plasma membrane, increasing the exposure of β-actin filaments and providing more binding sites for RrgA, leading to enhanced pneumococcal interactions with neurons. Ply also induces neuronal cell death possibly through β-actin filament disruption and cytoskeleton instability, and aggregate formation. The findings suggest that both RrgA and Ply contribute to neuronal cell damage and potentially explain why pneumococci frequently cause neurological sequelae.
 In the study of Conspecific male animals, such as the fighting fish Betta splendens, they typically engage in contests for resources and mates but stop fighting after assessing their relative abilities to avoid serious injuries. The behavioral synchronization during fighting in B. splendens pairs is a unique phenomenon, with each male attempting to increase its chance of winning by imposing aggressive behaviors upon its opponent, leading to tightly synchronized behaviors.To understand the molecular basis of this behavioral synchronization, researchers examined the brain-transcriptomic changes in B. splendens during fighting. They found that brain-transcriptomic synchronization was observable to a lesser extent after a 20-minute fight and was strengthened after a 60-minute fight. The study demonstrated that brain-transcriptomic synchronization is a phenomenon that has been widely known at the behavioral level but has rarely been observed at the molecular level and could occur widely among animals.The researchers used RNA sequencing to analyze the gene expression profiles of five non-fighting individuals (B), 10 samples from 20-minute fights (D20), and 10 samples from 60-minute fights (D60). They found that the DEGs were obtained from comparisons of gene expression between the non-fighting group (B) with the D20 and D60 groups. The Pearson correlation coefficients of log2-transformed TMM values were calculated separately between two random fish from each group of the D20 and D60. The results showed that the paired fish had higher correlation coefficients than unpaired fish, indicating the presence of brain-transcriptomic synchronization.The researchers also identified synchronized genes using a two-step method. In the first step, they obtained DEGs from the B vs. D20 and B vs. D60 comparisons. In the second step, they determined whether a gene was synchronized or not by calculating the expression distance between two random fish and comparing it to the expression distance between unpaired fish. They found that synchronized genes were defined as genes with a lower expression distance in paired fish compared to unpaired fish.To gain insight into the biological functions of synchronized genes, the researchers performed Gene Ontology (GO) and KEGG pathway analyses on the chosen gene modules in WGCNA. They found that the synchronized gene set was mainly enriched in terms related to neurotransmitter secretion, ion transport, and synapse function.Overall, this study provides a framework for understanding synchronization at the behavioral and molecular levels that occurs during a contest or collaboration in higher animals through social interactions. The findings suggest that brain-transcriptomic synchronization may underlie the behavior synchronization between two interacting partners in vertebrates and may occur with collaborative behaviors due to the universality of behavioral synchronization under both competitive and collaborative circumstances.
 Mosquito viruses, both mosquito-specific and mosquito-borne, can cause unpredictable outbreaks of disease. Recently, several unassigned viruses isolated from mosquitoes, including the Omono River virus (OmRV), were identified as totivirus-like viruses with features similar to those of the Totiviridae family. OmRV is a mosquito-specific virus, and its structures, determined using single-particle cryo-electron microscopy, revealed an unexpected protrusion at the five-fold vertex of the capsid. This protrusion is composed of a small protein cleaved from the polypeptide precursor encoded by ORF1. The protrusion might associate with the extracellular transmission of OmRV.OmRV shares high homology in both sequence and structure with the previously reported OmRV-AK4, except for the unexpected protrusion. The protrusion occupies the outermost capsid in OmRV and is most probably the first part attached to the cell during invasion. The mechanism of extracellular transmission of OmRV needs to be further studied, but it may involve the inner core of the protrusion interacting with positively charged substrates and the protrusions inducing conformation changes on the protrusions, causing breakage or disassociation.OmRV and other members of the Totiviridae family, such as IMNV, have a non-segmented double-stranded RNA genome containing two large overlapping open reading frames (ORFs), ORF1 and ORF2, which encode the major capsid protein (MCP) and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRP), respectively. However, in both cases of IMNV and OmRV, which have shown to be capable of extracellular transmission, ORF1 encodes a poly-protein precursor. The N-termini of the IMNV and OmRV MCPs are generated by cleavage after a conserved oligopeptide sequence motif, and both viruses have a major capsid with icosahedral symmetry and a T = 1 lattice comprising 60 dimers composed of MCP-A and MCP-B.The structures of five assigned members of the fungus and protozoan virus family Totiviridae have been determined, showing that these viruses lack a fibre-like protrusion on the capsid and are incapable of extracellular transmission, except for GLV. IMNV and OmRV may face a more complex environment when invading metazoan hosts, and the protrusion is probably an adaptation to that environment. The β-jelly roll structure in the OmRV-LZ protrusion may also play roles in cell invasion. However, more evidence and further investigations are needed to understand the mechanism of extracellular transmission of OmRV-LZ.
 This study investigates the role of Ric-8B, a highly conserved protein that interacts with Gαs class subunits from heterotrimeric G proteins, during mouse embryogenesis. Ric-8B acts as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for both Gαs and Gαolf, and its expression is predominant in the same tissues where Gαolf is expressed. Ric-8B is essential for embryonic development, as shown by the fact that complete knockout of the Ric-8B gene results in mice that are not viable and die early during embryogenesis.The researchers generated mice that are deficient for Ric-8B using two ES cell lines, RRH188 and RRA103, which contain a gene trap vector in the Ric-8B gene. They found that homozygous embryos die around embryonic day 10.5, and that expression from the Ric-8B gene promoter is restricted to the cephalic neural folds and neural tube regions. The levels of β-galactosidase expression are significantly higher in the Ric-8Bbgeo/bgeo embryos when compared to heterozygote embryos, due to the fact that the Ric-8Bbgeo/bgeo embryos carry two copies of the β-geo reporter gene while the Ric-8Bwt/bgeo embryos have only one copy.The researchers also found that mTORC2 activity, but not mTORC1 activity, is impaired in Ric-8Bbgeo/bgeo embryos. This is significant because mTORC2 has been implicated in the regulation of cytoskeletal organization, cell survival, and cell migration, and both complexes, mTORC1 and mTORC2, have been linked to the control of protein synthesis. The results suggest that Ric-8B is required for normal mTORC2 activity during mouse embryogenesis.To further investigate the role of Ric-8B in mTORC2 activity, the researchers generated conditional shRNA-mediated Ric-8B knockdown HEK293T cell lines and analyzed mTOR signaling in these cells. They found that the levels of phospho-Akt (Ser473) are markedly reduced in the shRNA 17 knockdown cells, and that the levels of phospho-S6 and NDRG1, downstream targets of mTORC2, are also reduced in the Ric-8B shRNA17 knockdown cells. These results indicate that not only in the mouse embryo, but also in the HEK293T cells, Ric-8B is required for mTORC2 activity.In conclusion, this study provides novel insights into the signals that regulate mTORC2 and reveals a crucial role for Ric-8B in development. The findings may contribute to the understanding of the mechanisms that regulate mTORC2 activity, which are still little understood. All procedures undertaken in this study were approved by the University of São Paulo Chemistry Institute’s Animal Care and Use Committee.
 Dengue fever, a common vector-borne disease and a neglected tropical disease, poses a significant public health threat, particularly in Southeast Asia and the Western Pacific. The epidemic size of dengue outbreaks varies dramatically across seasons due to factors such as population susceptibility, mosquito density, meteorological conditions, geographical factors, and human mobility. An ensemble forecast system for dengue fever is proposed to address the challenge of predicting outbreaks with drastically different scales.The ensemble forecast system is based on a susceptible-infected-recovered (SIR) type of compartmental model informed by meteorological and mosquito density information, coupled with a data assimilation method called the ensemble adjusted Kalman filter (EAKF). The model simulates the transmission of dengue virus between mosquitoes and humans and generates predictions. To account for the dramatic variations of outbreak size in different seasons, an effective population size parameter is introduced and sequentially updated to adjust the predicted outbreak scale.The proposed forecast model generates accurate projections of peak timing, peak intensity, and total incidence in Guangzhou, China, during the 2011-2017 seasons, outperforming a generalized additive model approach. The ensemble forecast system can be operated in real-time and inform control planning to reduce the burden of dengue fever.The study demonstrates the importance of considering population susceptibility, mosquito density, meteorological conditions, and geographical factors in dengue forecasting. The proposed ensemble forecast system provides a promising approach to accurately predict dengue outbreaks and inform public health interventions. However, further research is needed to consider the influence of other factors, such as human mobility and different serotypes of dengue virus, on dengue transmission dynamics.
 The study aimed to develop and pilot an intervention to strengthen the resilience of individuals and families affected by leprosy against discrimination. The intervention was designed as a 10-week family-based program, with sessions focusing on knowledge, thoughts and behavior, rights, and spirituality, and relationships and social support. The study was conducted in urban and rural areas in India and included 80 participants, mostly from low-income backgrounds. The results showed a significant increase in resilience scores for persons affected and family members from Odisha state, but not for participants from Telangana state. The intervention also significantly improved the quality of life of persons affected and family members from Odisha state, which was maintained six months after the intervention. The study highlights the importance of social support, accurate knowledge about leprosy, and acknowledging spiritual beliefs in fostering resilience. However, the study was limited by the COVID-19 pandemic and the lack of validation of the CD-RISC in Odia language. Future studies should assess the impact of the intervention on internalized stigma, mental wellbeing, physical health, and stressor exposure, as well as explore the relationship between resilience and religion. Overall, the study suggests that the 10-week family-based intervention has the potential to improve resilience and quality of life among persons affected by leprosy and their families, but a large-scale efficacy trial is necessary to determine its effectiveness and long-term sustainability.
 In budding yeast, the shugoshin protein Sgo1 plays a crucial role in establishing biorientation during mitosis by recruiting the protein phosphatase PP2A-Rts1 and the condensin complex to centromeres. The interaction between Sgo1 and condensin is mediated by a Serine-Rich Motif (SRM) within Sgo1, which is essential for centromeric condensin recruitment and the establishment of biorientation. This interaction is regulated via phosphorylation within the SRM, and Mps1, a central kinase in the spindle assembly checkpoint, directly phosphorylates Sgo1 within the SRM to regulate the interaction with condensin and thereby condensin localization to centromeres. The findings identify novel mechanisms controlling shugoshin activity at the centromere in budding yeast.
 This study aimed to evaluate the performance of computational T cell epitope prediction tools using a comprehensive dataset of T cell epitopes identified in Vaccinia virus (VACV) infected C57BL/6 mice expressing H-2Db and H-2Kb. The dataset included peptides predicted to bind MHC or experimentally eluted from infected cells, making it the most comprehensive dataset of T cell epitopes mapped in a complex pathogen.The study found that all currently available computational T cell epitope prediction tools were able to improve epitope identification above random, with the best performance achieved by neural network-based predictions trained on both MHC binding and MHC ligand elution data (NetMHCPan-4.0 and MHCFlurry). These methods were able to capture more than half of the major epitopes in the top predictions.The performance metrics provide guidance for immunologists as to which prediction methods to use and what success rates are possible for epitope predictions. The benchmark was implemented in an open and easy-to-replicate format, providing developers with a framework for future comparisons against new tools.The study used a dataset of 767,788 peptide/allele combinations and evaluated the performance of 17 distinct prediction approaches. The results showed that NetMHCpan-4.0-L ranked first with an overall AUC of 0.977, followed by NetMHCpan-4.0-B and MHCflurry-L. The ROC curves showed that the performance of the prediction methods varied widely, with some methods having better performance for certain peptide lengths or alleles.The study also examined the effect of excluding 'minor' epitopes from the analysis and found that the number of peptides required to capture 50%, 75%, and 90% of the epitopes varied widely among the methods. The number of epitopes captured in the top 172 peptides predicted by each method also varied widely.The study also compared the performance of the prediction methods based on the T cell response generated by the peptides and found that the performance was slightly higher when measuring the performance based on the magnitude of the T cell response covered systematically.The study also compared the speed with which the different methods could provide their answers and found that matrix-based methods were significantly faster than artificial neural network-based methods on average.Overall, the study found that most of the latest methods perform at a very high level, especially the methods developed on artificial neural-network based architectures. The study also found that methods that integrated MHC binding and MHC ligand elution data performed better than those trained on MHC binding data alone. The IEDB will be updating the default recommended prediction method to NetMHCPan-4.0-L based on the results of this study.
 This study aimed to investigate the relationship between paternal obesity and small for gestational age offspring by examining DNA methylation changes in spermatozoa. Previous research in non-human mammals suggested that such associations could be mediated by DNA methylation changes in sperm. The study profiled genome-wide DNA methylation in matched human blood and sperm samples using the Illumina MethylationEPIC array.The results showed that DNA methylation signatures of human blood and spermatozoa are highly discordant, and methylation levels are correlated at only a minority of CpG sites (~1%). Obesity-associated DNA methylation in blood was not generally reflected in spermatozoa, and obesity was not associated with altered covariation patterns or accelerated epigenetic aging in the two tissues. However, one cross-tissue obesity-specific hypermethylated site was identified, warranting further investigation.The study also compared spermatozoal DNA methylation to that of nearly 6,000 somatic tissue samples, allowing the identification of sperm-specific DNA methylation signatures. Overall, human sperm displays a unique DNA methylation profile that is highly discordant to, and practically uncorrelated with, that of matched peripheral blood. The findings suggest that spermatozoal DNA methylation is an unlikely mediator of intergenerational effects of metabolic traits.
 Reovirus, a nonenveloped virus with two concentric protein shells, exhibits serotype-dependent patterns of infection in the central nervous system (CNS). While reovirus rarely causes serious disease outcomes in humans, it can lead to loss of oral tolerance to dietary antigens and cause age-restricted disease. Reovirus infection of the CNS is influenced by the serotype and the capacity to bind sialic acid.To study mechanisms of reovirus neuronal entry and transport, primary rat cortical and sensory neuron cultures were used in combination with microfluidic devices and small molecule inhibitors of endocytosis. Reovirus endocytosis in neurons was found to differ from that in other cell types, as it primarily uses macropinocytosis instead of clathrin-mediated endocytosis (CME). Reovirus spreads retrograde but not anterograde in cultured neurons, and its transport occurs primarily in non-acidic vesicles.Reovirus neuronal entry and transport are dependent on microtubules and dynein, and reovirus-containing vesicles acidify after reaching the neuronal soma, where viral cores enter the cytoplasm and establish replication organelles. These findings provide insights into neuron-specific mechanisms used by reovirus to enter and traverse through the highly polarized structure of neurons. Understanding these mechanisms is crucial for the development of interventions that block early steps in reovirus infection.
 This study aimed to characterize monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) specific to the C-terminal domain (ctCSP) of Plasmodium falciparum's circumsporozoite protein (CSP) in volunteers immunized with the RTS, S/AS01 vaccine. The researchers identified seven mAbs targeting two distinct sites on opposite faces of ctCSP, one site containing a polymorphic region (α-ctCSP) and another a previously undescribed site on the conserved β-sheet face (β-ctCSP). Antibodies to the β-site exhibited broad reactivity with a diverse panel of ctCSP peptides and demonstrated inhibition activity against malaria infection in a murine model. These findings suggest that the β-site could be targeted for prophylactic antibodies and structure-based vaccine design.The RTS, S/AS01 vaccine, which is the most advanced malaria vaccine and has recently been approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) for use in Africa, is composed of a virus-like particle containing 19 NANP repeats and the C-terminal region of the strain 3D7 PfCSP linked to the hepatitis B surface antigen protein (HBsAg) and unmodified HBsAg along with adjuvant AS01E. The vaccine showed an efficacy of approximately 50% within the first 14 months of administration in phase 3 clinical trials in Africa, but its efficacy declined over time due to waning titers of anti-CSP antibodies.The study's findings highlight the importance of understanding the spectrum of epitopes in the CSP antigens recognized by protective antibodies and their role in protection, which could contribute to the design of improved next-generation PfCSP vaccines. While potent antibodies against the NANP repeats, minor repeats, and junctional region have been extensively characterized, the roles of PfCSP C-terminal and N-terminal antibodies remain understudied. The researchers isolated and characterized seven C-terminal-specific mAbs from volunteers immunized with the RTS, S/AS01 vaccine, grouped them into distinct epitope bins by competition assay, and characterized their affinity and breadth to further elucidate their potential role in protection against P. falciparum. They obtained crystal structures of the Fab fragments for five of these antibodies in complex with ctCSP, revealing a new epitope region consisting of one face of ctCSP comprised of β-strands in the conserved αTSR homology region. One member of this new class of anti-ctCSP mAbs had anti-parasite activity by conducting an in vivo protection study in mice using transgenic P. berghei that express PfCSP. Overall, this study reveals a conserved ctCSP epitope region that binds antibodies with wide breadth, high affinity, and protective ability, which could be utilized in the design of antibodies as medical countermeasures and next-generation malaria vaccines.
 This study aimed to investigate the differences in lysine malonylation between three Toxoplasma gondii strains (RH, PRU, and VEG) with distinct pathogenicity in mice. LC-MS/MS and immuno-affinity purification were used to profile lysine malonylation in these strains. A total of 1,812 malonylated peptides from 775 proteins were identified, with 111 proteins and 152 sites upregulated and 17 proteins and sites downregulated in RH versus PRU strains; 50 proteins and 59 sites upregulated and 50 proteins and 53 sites downregulated in RH versus VEG strains; and 72 proteins and 90 sites upregulated and 7 proteins and 8 sites downregulated in VEG versus PRU strains. Differentially malonylated proteins were involved in key processes, such as protein metabolism, stress response, glycolysis, and actin cytoskeleton. These findings provide new insights into the role of lysine malonylation in the genotypic differences in T. gondii virulence and offer a resource for elucidating the contribution of lysine malonylation to energy metabolism and virulence in T. gondii.
 Nematode parasites infect approximately 1.5 billion people globally and are a significant public health concern. There is a need for new, more effective anthelmintic drugs. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in nematodes, particularly those in the pharynx, are potential drug targets due to their distinct pharmacology from somatic muscle receptors and insensitivity to many current cholinergic anthelmintics. A novel homomeric nAChR composed of five non-Î± EAT-2 subunits and an essential auxiliary subunit protein EAT-18 was identified in Caenorhabditis elegans and Ascaris suum. This receptor is not sensitive to existing cholinomimetic anthelmintics and has different pharmacological properties than previously characterized nAChRs. The functional expression of this receptor is dependent on co-expression with EAT-18. The discovery of this novel nAChR and its auxiliary protein provides a new potential drug target and a new type of obligate auxiliary protein for nAChRs.Nematodes, including parasitic species, have a complex neuromuscular system that relies on a large repertoire of highly regulated transporters, neurotransmitters, peptides, and ion channels for homeostatic cell-cell communication. nAChRs are pore-forming membrane proteins belonging to the cys-loop ligand-gated ion channel superfamily and are conserved throughout metazoan evolution. They facilitate rapid ionotropic neurotransmission and control various physiological behaviors, including reproduction, navigation, feeding, and locomotion. Nematode nAChRs have a greater number of subunits than vertebrates, and variation in stoichiometry and subunit composition leads to diverse pharmacological sensitivities, making them attractive anthelmintic targets.The pharynx is a neuromuscular organ in nematodes that undergoes rhythmic peristalsis to ingest food and is crucial for survival. Pharyngeal peristalsis is under the control of rhythmic activation by excitatory (cholinergic) and inhibitory (glutamatergic) motor neurons innervating the pharyngeal muscle. Glutamate-gated chloride channels (GluCls) in the nematode pharynx are one of the primary targets for avermectins, but little is known about the cholinergic receptors in this tissue.Through genetic screening, Raizen et al. identified eat-2 (encoding a non-Î± nAChR subunit) and eat-18 (encoding a single-pass transmembrane domain protein) as essential components of pharyngeal cholinergic transmission in C. elegans. The functional expression of EAT-2 and EAT-18 from free-living C. elegans and parasitic A. suum was described for the first time. For the first time, a non-Î± nicotinic subunit (EAT-2) was found to form a homomeric ligand-gated cation selective ion-channel. The functional expression of this noncanonical receptor is dependent on co-expression with EAT-18. All previously characterized cation selective nAChRs have at least two Î± subunits with the ligand binding sites located at the interface between each Î± and its adjacent subunit. However, EAT-18 forms part of the mature receptor and functions as an obligate auxiliary protein.EAT-2 has the typical functional domains of a pentameric ligand-gated ion channel subunit, including a large extracellular N-terminal domain, a cys-loop, four transmembrane domains, a cytoplasmic domain, and a short extracellular C-terminus. EAT-2 is a non-Î± subunit as it lacks the pair of adjacent cysteine residues in loop-C required for agonist binding. Cel-EAT-18 is a small, single-pass transmembrane protein expressed in pharyngeal muscle and neurons with no vertebrate homologs. There are two splice variants of the gene in C. elegans, encoding EAT-18c (71 aa) and EAT-18d (78 aa), which differ mainly in their C-terminal regions. The coding sequence of EAT-18
 HIV-1 infects CD4 T lymphocytes (CD4TL) through binding the chemokine receptors CCR5 or CXCR4. CXCR4-using viruses are considered more pathogenic and linked to accelerated depletion of CD4TL and progression to AIDS. However, there are counterexamples to this paradigm, suggesting heterogeneity in the virulence of CXCR4-using viruses. In this study, the role of the CXCR4 chemokine CXCL12 in driving virus virulence was investigated.Through analysis of thirty envelope glycoproteins (Envs) from patients at different stages of infection, it was found that CXCL12-resistant (RES) Envs are frequent in patients with low CD4TL levels, mostly late in infection. RES Envs adopt a more closed conformation with distinct antigenicity compared to CXCL12-sensitive (SENS) Envs. At the level of the host cell, resistance is not due to improved fusion or binding to CD4, but owes to viruses using particular CXCR4 molecules weakly accessible to CXCL12.RES viruses seem more likely to deregulate CD4TL homeostasis, as they have an enhanced capacity to enter naive CD4TL when surrounded by CXCL12, mirroring their situation in lymphoid organs. This work improves our understanding of the pathophysiology and transmission of HIV-1 and suggests that RES viruses’ receptors could represent new therapeutic targets to help prevent CD4TL depletion in HIV+ patients on cART.
 Zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis (ZCL) is endemic in Palestine and transmitted by Phlebotomus sand flies, which inhabit hyrax dens. Despite control measures implemented since 1996, ZCL cases continue to occur. A study was conducted in Tayasir, Tubas district, to evaluate the effectiveness of thermal fogging with pyrethroids in rock hyrax dens to reduce sand fly density and Leishmania spp. infection.During the study, 13,969 Phlebotomine sand flies were collected, of which 12,203 were from inside hyrax dens and 1,766 from outside. Among all sand flies, 11,846 were identified as Sergentomyia spp., and 1,121 as Phlebotomus spp. from four subgenera and ten species, including P. sergenti, P. major s.l., and P. arabicus. Among Phlebotomus spp., 638 were females.The highest Phlebotomus spp. density was in a natural deep cave designated as the intervention site, with an average density of 164 sand flies/trap/night pre-intervention and 42 sand flies/trap/night post-intervention (-75%). In the control site, the average density was 18 sand flies/trap/night pre-intervention and 11 sand flies/trap/night post-intervention (-40%).Using Mulla's formula, a 19% abundance increase was observed in the intervention site during the whole post-intervention period and especially during the first week of fogging (78% increase). Thermal fogging inside hyrax dens effectively reduced the density of all sand flies and especially of Leishmania infected P. sergenti and P. major (-80% and -74%, respectively).The study highlights the importance of hyrax dens as a source of ZCL infection due to the presence of P. sergenti, which is the most abundant Phlebotomus species and the most infected by L. tropica. Insecticide thermal fogging inside hyrax dens appears to be a promising complementary strategy in controlling ZCL foci in limited-resource settings, especially when applied every two to five weeks. Further studies using a randomized clinical trial design are needed to better explore the impact of fogging as a vector control tool for ZCL.
 The non-coding regions of foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) RNA genomes, specifically pseudoknot (PK) structures in the 5′ untranslated region (5′ UTR), play crucial roles in gene expression regulation. The FMDV 5′ UTR is longer than in other picornaviruses and contains multiple PK structures, which are linked in tandem. The functions of these PKs in FMDV infection are not fully understood, but studies using bioinformatics, sub-genomic replicons, and recombinant viruses have investigated their structural conservation and importance in the FMDV lifecycle.Results from these studies show that despite the conservation of two or more PKs across all FMDVs, a replicon lacking PKs was replication competent, albeit at reduced levels. In competition experiments, GFP FMDV replicons with less than two PK structures were outcompeted by a mCherry FMDV wt replicon that had 4 PKs, whereas GFP replicons with 2 or 4 PKs were not. This apparent replicative advantage offered by the additional PKs correlates with the maintenance of at least two PKs in the genomes of FMDV field isolates.Furthermore, a replicon lacking any PKs was not viable, and at least one PK was essential for recovery of infections virus, suggesting roles for the PKs in both vRNA replication and virion assembly. Overall, these findings improve our understanding of the molecular biology of FMDV replication and the wider roles of PK in RNA functions.
 This study assessed the palatability of two new orally disintegrating tablet (ODT) formulations of Praziquantel (PZQ) in comparison with the currently available PZQ tablet (PZQ-Cesol) in African children aged 6-11 years old. The trial was conducted in a single school in Tanzania and involved 48 children who were stratified by age group and gender and then randomized to one of 12 sequences. The children assessed the palatability of each formulation by tasting it without water on Day 1 and with water on Day 2.The results showed that both L-PZQ ODT and Rac-PZQ ODT had higher palatability scores than PZQ-Cesol when dispersed in water. However, the superiority of L-PZQ ODT over Rac-PZQ ODT without water could not be confirmed. L-PZQ ODT dispersed in water was more palatable than Rac-PZQ ODT dispersed in water for boys but not for girls. Some evidence of an age effect and gender effect on palatability was also observed.The trial was a randomized, single-blind, five-period crossover clinical trial designed to evaluate the palatability of the two new ODT formulations of PZQ and the currently available PZQ tablet. The study was carried out in a single school in Rufiji district, Tanzania, where schistosomiasis is endemic. Children aged 6-11 years were recruited and stratified by age group and gender. Each participant tasted each preparation only once in each of the five periods, with 2 hours between each assessment.The primary outcome was the difference in VAS score taken at 0 minutes immediately after spitting out (VASt = 0) for L-PZQ ODT disintegrated in the mouth without water versus Rac-PZQ ODT disintegrated in the mouth without water on Day 1. The secondary outcome was the difference in VAS score taken at 0 minutes immediately after spitting out (VASt = 0) for L-PZQ ODT (150 mg) dispersed in water or Rac-PZQ ODT (150 mg) dispersed in water versus the current PZQ-Cesol tablet (150 mg, 1/4 of a 600 mg tablet) crushed and dispersed in water on Day 2. Other secondary outcomes included the VAS scores taken at 2 to 5 minutes (VASt2–5) after spitting out the IMP on Day 1 and Day 2, as well as the recording of any discomfort or other observations throughout the study duration.The study was designed to provide at least 89.2% power to detect a mean difference in palatability of 10 points in VAS score between Rac-PZQ ODT and L-PZQ ODT without water, assuming a within-subject standard deviation of 15 points and a two-sided Type 1 error of 5.0%. Similarly, it was designed to provide at least 89.5% power to detect a mean difference in palatability of 11 points in VAS score between one of the new formulations and the current PZQ formulation crushed in water, assuming a within-subject standard deviation of 15 points and a two-sided Type 1 error of 2.5%.The study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and Good Clinical Practice guidelines. Ethical clearance was obtained from the Ifakara Health Institute review board, the National Medical Research Council Committee, and the ethical committee of North-Western and Central Switzerland. The trial protocol and medicinal products were approved by the Tanzanian food and drug authority. The data safety monitoring committee was established by the sponsor.Children and their parents were informed about the trial through community-based meetings and written consent forms were obtained from all parents and children. Eligible participants were enrolled in one of the four stratification groups and then randomized to one of the 12 sequences. Participants were instructed to hold an investigational medicinal product (IMP) for 10 seconds in the mouth and then spit it out immediately. All recruited children were able to hold the IMP for 10 seconds without swallowing or spitting out before 10 seconds as instructed.The study was carried out within the school premises during weekends in April and May 2015. The IMP was prepared by a pharmacist in a separate room,
 This study discovered a novel mechanism of action (MOA) and specific compounds to treat all nine human herpesviruses and animal herpesviruses by targeting the pressurized genome state in a viral capsid and "turning off" capsid pressure, preventing viral genome ejection into a cell nucleus and viral replication. The MOA serves as a proof-of-concept for a new antiviral target that is likely impervious to drug resistance. The findings present a platform for the development of a new class of broad-spectrum treatments for herpesviruses and other viral infections with genome-pressure-dependent replication. The biophysical approach to antiviral treatment is also a vital strategy to prevent the spread of emerging viruses where vaccine development is challenged by high mutation rates or other evasion mechanisms.Herpesviruses are a leading cause of human viral disease, second only to influenza and cold viruses. Among the nine human herpesviruses, latent herpes simplex type 1 (HSV-1) and herpes simplex type 2 (HSV-2) frequently reactivate to result in recurrent acute oral and genital lesions, as well as encephalitis. Other herpesviruses, such as varicella-zoster virus (VZV), can reactivate decades after the initial infection and may result in painful and debilitating recurrences of shingles. Infections with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) are associated with oncogenic transformation. There is a large unmet need for anti-herpes drugs that can reduce the frequency and severity of recurring outbreaks and control viral replication in the immunocompromised.Currently approved herpetic antiviral agents target and disrupt multiple aspects of the viral life cycle, except for DNA release into the cell nucleus. Resistance can quickly evolve from even a single amino acid substitution in the targeted protein, which has been the scourge of most antiviral therapeutics. This has led researchers to search for antiviral targets that do not involve viral proteins. In this work, researchers discovered that the mechanically stressed and pressurized state of strongly confined viral DNA packaged in a herpesvirus capsid presents an evolutionarily static target for antiviral therapies that is independent of nucleotide sequences.The study used a reconstituted isolated nucleus system to demonstrate that the compounds prevent pressure-driven DNA ejection during the herpesvirus infectious cycle. The compounds are small polyamine molecules that permeate the viral capsid and bind to intracapsid DNA, condensing the packaged genome and removing capsid genome pressure. The compounds are polyamines that have been previously shown to strongly condense dsDNA. The condensation of DNA in a herpes capsid occurs through screening of DNA-DNA net repulsive interactions and introduction of net attractive interactions between the neighboring DNA strands, acting as an electrostatic and steric DNA-DNA “zipper.” The selected compounds have low cytotoxicity, making them promising lead compounds for further anti-herpes drug development and presenting a new class of broad-spectrum treatments for all nine human herpesviruses as well as animal herpesviruses.
 The Nancowry Islands in the Nicobar district of India, with a population of 7674, are the sole focus of diurnally sub-periodic Wuchereria bancrofti (DspWB) transmission by Aedes niveus mosquitoes. Despite nine rounds of Mass Drug Administration (MDA) with DEC and albendazole, microfilaria (Mf) prevalence remained above 1%, indicating continued transmission. Molecular xenomonitoring (MX) was conducted to assess the impact of MDA and identify appropriate vector sampling methods.BioGents Sentinel traps, gravid traps, and human baited double bed net traps were used to collect Aedes niveus female mosquitoes. Subsequently, daytime man landing collections (MLCs) were carried out in all 25 villages. The average prevalence of W. bancrofti DNA in Ae. niveus was 0.43%, and the estimated upper 95% CI exceeded the provisional prevalence threshold of 0.1% in all villages, indicating continued transmission. MLCs were the most productive method for collecting Ae. niveus mosquitoes.MX, which includes vector mosquito collection and molecular assay, can be used to evaluate interventions in this area after further standardization of the protocol. The vector-parasite MX can be used to observe the impact of MDA on LF transmission. The PCR assay used in MX for nocturnally periodic bancroftian filariasis can be adopted for DspWB. However, the lack of parallel data on vector infection assessed by dissection and microscopy limits the ability to comment on false positives. The cheaper DNA extraction method used in this study should be technically and operationally feasible.MX has been observed to be an indicator of human filarial infection transmitted by different mosquito vectors in various ecological situations. In American Samoa, MX results showed evidence of ongoing transmission of W. bancrofti by Ae. polynesiensis after two successful TASs, which was confirmed by TAS3. In view of the ongoing transmission, MDA was continued in Nicobar district, including the four Islands, with additional inputs as per the national accelerated plan of LF elimination. A pilot study with mass distribution of DEC fortified salt as a supplementary measure to the ongoing MDA was implemented in two islands, and after one year of intervention, total interruption of transmission was achieved. MX can be a useful supplementary surveillance tool to TAS for evaluation of the impact as well as post-MDA monitoring. Exploring an alternative method of mosquito sampling to MLC will make MX operationally more feasible.
 This study discovered that USP12, a deubiquitinase, interacts with and inhibits the acetyltransferase activity of CBP, a critical regulator of transcription events through protein acetylation. USP12 positively regulates interferon (IFN) antiviral signaling independently of its deubiquitinase activity. In IFN signaling, USP12 translocates from the cytoplasm to the nucleus, which facilitates CBP-induced acetylation and activation of IFN signaling proteins in the cytoplasm and blocks CBP-induced acetylation of phosphorylated STAT1 (p-STAT1) in the nucleus, maintaining nuclear p-STAT1 levels and IFN antiviral efficacy. The findings provide new insights into the regulation of CBP acetyltransferase activity and potential strategies for improving IFN-based antiviral therapy.
 This study identified the presence of two orthobunyaviruses, Melao virus (MELV) and Oropouche virus (OROV), in plasma specimens from Haitian children with acute febrile illness during outbreaks caused by alpha- and flaviviruses in 2014. MELV was isolated from five case patients and was previously not known to cause human illness. OROV RNA was detected in one additional child. Abdominal pain was reported in four case patients with MELV infections, with lymphadenopathy noted in two cases. The findings highlight the importance of surveillance and viral genome sequence analyses to identify outbreaks caused by emerging viruses within the Caribbean region.Orthobunyaviruses are enveloped viruses with a genome composed of three segments of negative-sense single-stranded RNAs. MELV was first isolated from Aedes and Psorophora spp. mosquitoes in Trinidad and has been reported to cause infections leading to antibody production in horses and humans. OROV causes Oropouche febrile illness, which is a common arbovirus-associated febrile illness in Brazil, and is known to cause meningoencephalitis.Plasma samples were collected from children with acute febrile illness in a school cohort in Haiti and were screened for CHIKV, DENV, ZIKV, and malaria parasites using RT-PCR and rapid diagnostic tests, respectively. Virus isolation attempts were made in two cell lines, and vRNA was extracted and sequenced from cell culture media using a duplex RT-PCR for other alphaviruses and flaviviruses.The isolates were deemed safe to work with in a BSL2 facility and were transferred for further analysis. Two approaches were used to attempt to determine the genome sequences of the virus isolates: Sanger sequencing and next-generation sequencing (NGS). The results showed that MELV was present in five of the 25 plasma samples, and OROV was present in one of the samples. The isolates were designated Haiti-1/2014 for MELV and Oropouche virus/Homo sapiens/Haiti-1/2014 for OROV.The findings document the occurrence and spread of these orthobunyaviruses within the Caribbean region and highlight the critical importance of surveillance (with unbiased sequencing approaches) to identify outbreaks/epidemics caused by these and other emerging viruses. The study also emphasizes the need for further research to understand the human pathogenic potential of these viruses and to develop diagnostic tools for their identification.
