 This study aimed to investigate the role of lung-resident mesenchymal stem and stromal cells (LR-MSCs) during respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection using primary human LR-MSCs and a translational model of human RSV infection in lambs. The findings revealed that RSV infection led to a robust activation of LR-MSCs, characterized by a strong antiviral and pro-inflammatory phenotype combined with cytokines modulating T cell function. Additionally, RSV-mediated lung injury stimulated the expansion of LR-MSCs, which mounted a dynamic transcriptional program related to mechanisms of repair and regeneration. The data also indicated a distinct life cycle of RSV in LR-MSCs with viral spread via cell-to-cell contact, which may improve virus dissemination and promote immune evasion. Overall, these findings demonstrate the involvement of LR-MSCs in virus-induced lung injury and have therapeutic implications.
 Visceral leishmaniasis (VL), also known as kala azar, is a parasitic disease endemic in South Sudan, where pregnant women are particularly vulnerable due to changes in the immune system during pregnancy. A retrospective analysis was conducted using routine programme data from a MSF health facility in Lankien, South Sudan, between October 2014 and April 2018. The study included 113 women with VL in pregnancy and 223 non-pregnant women with VL as a comparison group. Women with VL in pregnancy presented with more severe anaemia, were more likely to need blood transfusion, and were more often prescribed antibiotics than non-pregnant women. Adverse pregnancy outcomes, including miscarriage and premature delivery, were reported in 20% of pregnant women where VL was diagnosed in pregnancy and 50% where VL was diagnosed postpartum. Pregnant women were more likely to require extension of treatment to achieve cure. Overall, initial cure rates were high (96.5%) and mortality was low (1.8%) in this cohort of pregnant women with VL. The study highlights the importance of good maternal survival rates in resource-limited settings, despite the high incidence of complications. The largest cohort in the literature of VL in pregnancy, the data suggest that AmBisome is the safest therapeutic option for VL in pregnancy and is the recommended treatment in South Sudan. However, pregnant women with VL often required extension of treatment to achieve cure. Careful evaluation of patients is needed at the end of the standard treatment regimen to ensure proper cure before discharge. Follow-up data would be relevant to determine if women with VL in pregnancy have an increased risk for relapse of VL disease and to understand the risk of pregnancy-related complications after discharge. Commonly reported complications, such as suspected secondary infections, severe anaemia, and obstetric complications, emphasize the need for appropriate medical care in addition to VL treatment for this patient group.
 This study aimed to characterize Salmonella enterica subspecies enterica serovar Typhi (S. Typhi) strains causing invasive disease in Kibera, Nairobi, Kenya, over a 12-year period to understand their evolutionary history, relationship to global typhoid isolates, and antimicrobial resistance patterns. Of the 412 Salmonella isolates from Kibera, 310 were identified as S. Typhi and underwent further analysis. By whole genome multi-locus sequence typing (wgMLST), four genetic clades were identified, with the predominant clade (n = 290, 93.4%) consisting of genotypes 4.3.1.1 and 4.3.1.2. All MDR isolates belonged to this clade and were genotype 4.3.1.1. Resistance determinants were identified exclusively in the predominant clade, with the most common being aph(3")-Ib and aph(6) -Id, conferring aminoglycoside resistance, and blaTEM-1, conferring β-lactam resistance. The prevalence of multidrug resistance (MDR) genes was similar throughout the study period, but an increase in quinolone resistance determinants was observed. Plasmid markers were identified in the predominant clade, including IncHI1A, IncHI1B (R27), and IncQ1. Molecular clock analysis suggested that genotype 4.3.1 has been introduced multiple times in Kibera, with some isolates forming a clade with genomes from Kenya, Malawi, South Africa, and Tanzania, dating back to around 1997. Overall, the findings highlight the importance of monitoring circulating S. Typhi strains for early detection of antimicrobial resistance patterns to guide empiric antibiotic treatment and inform preventive measures.
 SARS-CoV-2, the third novel coronavirus in two decades to cause significant human mortality, has resulted in over 5 million deaths worldwide. Vaccines are available but global implementation has been slow, allowing for the evolution of new variants that can evade immune responses. To identify potential therapeutics, researchers screened plasma from convalescent subjects for IgG against a stabilized pre-fusion SARS-CoV-2 spike S2 domain, which is highly conserved among human beta-coronaviruses. From these subjects, several S2-specific human monoclonal antibodies (hmAbs) were developed that neutralized SARS-CoV-2 with recognition of all variants of concern (VoC) tested (Beta, Gamma, Delta, Epsilon, and Omicron). The most potent and broad hmAb, 1249A8, emerged as able to recognize all human beta-coronaviruses and neutralize SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV. In animal models, 1249A8 demonstrated prophylactic and therapeutic activity against SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV, and its delivery as a single 4 mg/kg intranasal dose protected hamsters from weight loss and significantly reduced upper and lower respiratory viral burden. The combination of 1249A8 with the S1-specific neutralizing hmAb 1213H7 further enhanced therapeutic activity. These results suggest that potent universal coronavirus neutralizing mAbs with therapeutic potential can be induced in humans and can guide universal coronavirus vaccine development. All procedures involving human samples were approved by the Institutional Review Board for Human Use at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, and informed consent was obtained from participants.
 In this study, the authors investigate the regulation and coordination of the 3-oxoadipate (3-OAP) and gentisate (GP) pathways in the yeast Candida parapsilosis, which metabolize hydroxyaromatic substrates via these pathways. They use the genome assembly of the CLIB214 strain to analyze gene expression and protein levels in response to different hydroxyaromatic substrates. The results show that both pathways are activated by hydroxyaromatic substrates, leading to the upregulation of genes involved in β-oxidation of fatty acids, glyoxylate cycle, amino acid metabolism, and peroxisome biogenesis. The authors also identify putative transcription factors, Otf1p and Gtf1p, that function as transcriptional activators of the 3-OAP and GP genes, respectively. The phylogenetic analysis of the transcription factors and FA metabolism genes highlights the evolutionary adaptations of yeast cells to assimilate hydroxyaromatic substrates. The study provides insights into the molecular mechanisms of hydroxyaromatic substrate metabolism in C. parapsilosis and the role of transcriptional regulation in coordinating metabolic pathways.
 The paper introduces the Oracle-Supervised Neural Engineering Framework (osNEF), a method for training biologically-detailed spiking neural networks to realize cognitively-relevant dynamical systems. osNEF utilizes an online learning rule that combines insights from several theoretical frameworks, including the Neural Engineering Framework (NEF), and can be applied to various neuron and synapse models. The framework demonstrates its utility by producing neural networks that form an appropriate function basis for dynamic computation, performing cognitively-useful operations with high accuracy, and combining these operations into a larger cognitive network that performs a simple working memory task. The cognitive network, built from biologically-detailed components such as Pyramidal cells, inhibitory interneurons, conductance-based GABA synapses, and voltage-gated NMDA synapses, exhibits mnemonic performance comparable to simple animals. The paper also discusses the biological realism, cognitive capacity, and usability of osNEF and compares it to similar methods in the literature. Future work includes applying osNEF to other cognitive systems in the brain and investigating how low-level biological features contribute to high-level cognitive capacity.
 Down syndrome (DS) is caused by the complete or partial trisomy of human chromosome 21 (HSA21), leading to a complex syndrome with intellectual disability and various phenotypes. While the dosage imbalance hypothesis suggests that triplication of HSA21 genes results in their overexpression, transcriptomic studies reveal a genome-wide deregulation that is not arbitrary but involves specific molecular cascades. A meta-analysis of all publicly available transcriptomic datasets in human and mouse was performed to identify consistently deregulated genes and pathways.The analysis revealed that genes mapping on HSA21 and their interactors were more consistently deregulated than non-HSA21 genes. Gene co-deregulation often involved genes belonging to the same molecular process or were associated with the same disease ontologies. The most consistent changes were enriched in interferon-related categories and neutrophil activation, reinforcing the concept that DS is an inflammatory disease.The meta-analysis also identified new genes, such as ETNPPL, that could be useful for generating or confirming hypotheses and supporting new putative therapeutic candidates. The results were summarized in a user-friendly web application and an R package called "metaDEA" was developed to integrate every kind of transcriptomic data. The method could be used with other complex disorders, such as cancer.
 This study explores the relationship between neuronal oscillations and evoked responses using a biologically plausible model of a population of neurons in the neocortex. The Human Neocortical Neurosolver (HNN) model demonstrates that alpha frequency oscillations have a non-zero oscillatory mean (OM), which is driven by changes in currents and morphology. The simulations show that an increase in sodium channel densities on the soma leads to an increase in backpropagating currents and a subsequent increase in OM, while extending the apical dendrite of pyramidal neurons causes OM to drop below zero. The model also shows that the strength of currents in the apical dendrite contributes primarily to the current dipole change, and that extending the length of the apical dendrite of pyramidal neurons in layer V decreases the strength of the upward current, causing OM to decrease. The results support the hypothesis that currents in pyramidal neurons are asymmetric and that elongating apical dendrites produces even more asymmetry. The study also investigates the effect of synaptic weights on OM, finding that a bigger stimulation from proximal sources induced an increase in OM, while a bigger stimulation from distal sources is associated with a decrease in OM. The simulations with isolated proximal and isolated distal input represent an exceptional case and serve to demonstrate the effect of proximal and distal drives on dendritic currents and consequently on OM. The other presented results can be conceptualised as intermediate stages between these two extremes. The study also extracts the amplitude envelope of the alpha rhythm from real exemplary EEG data and modulates the number of neurons in the model with the extracted envelope, estimating the baseline-shift index (BSI) to detect baseline shifts associated with a non-zero OM in empirical electrophysiological data. The results show that there is a straightforward dependence between the amplitude of alpha rhythm and low-frequency amplitude that can be measured with BSI. The study also compares the performance of BSI in simulations and real data, showing that simulated data provide robust and stable oscillations that possess little variation in amplitude and frequency, while real oscillations tend to occur with highly varying amplitude including periods of no oscillations. The study also investigates the presence of non-zero mean alpha oscillations in a large data set containing resting-state EEG data, finding that more than 30% of obtained BSIs demonstrated a strong correlation with the amplitude envelope of the alpha rhythm, and around 30% showed a moderate correlation. The study also observes differences in BSI absolute values in young and old participants, with absolute BSI values being larger in the young group. The study also applies ANOVA to test the difference between age groups and conditions, finding that the difference between age groups was significant, while the difference between eyes-open and eyes-closed conditions failed to reach a significance threshold. The study also investigates the effect of power on the difference between groups, finding that power ratio in the alpha band was higher in the young group and in the eyes-closed condition, while power ratio in the low-frequency band was higher in the elderly group and in the eyes-open condition. The study also investigates the effect of spatial synchronisation on the amplitude of macroscopic alpha oscillations and the generation of the baseline shifts, finding that the degree of spatial synchronisation has a strong impact on the amplitude of macroscopic alpha oscillations while not having a considerable influence on the generation of the baseline shifts. The study also discusses the implications of the results for data analysis of EEG/MEG signals and for the interpretation of diverse experimental results.
 Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever virus (CCHFV) is a tick-borne virus that causes a hemorrhagic fever in humans with a case fatality rate of up to 40%. CCHFV has been reported in Africa, Asia, and southern Europe, and recently in Spain due to the expanding range of its tick vector. Although discovered over 70 years ago, our understanding of CCHFV pathogenesis remains limited. In this study, RNA-Seq was used to examine kinetic changes in host expression and viral replication simultaneously in two human liver cell lines (HepG2 and Huh7) infected with CCHFV. Through this, numerous host pathways were identified that were modulated by the virus, including antiviral response and endothelial cell leakage. Notably, the genes encoding DDX60, a cytosolic component of the RIG-I signalling pathway, and OAS2 were both shown to be dysregulated. PTPRR was induced in Huh7 cells but not HepG2 cells, and has been associated with the TLR9 signalling cascade and poor outcomes in patients. Additionally, whole-genome sequencing was performed on CCHFV to assess viral diversity over time and its relationship to the host response. This demonstrated that next-generation mRNA deep-sequencing can not only examine mRNA gene expression but also examine viral evolution and typing of the infecting strain. This provides a proof-of-principle that CCHFV specimens can be analyzed to identify both the virus and host biomarkers that may have implications for prognosis. The liver plays an important role in CCHFV infection, as it is an early target organ and involvement following infection is associated with elevated AST and ALT, correlating with poor prognosis. Understanding the host response in liver cells could provide insight into CCHFV pathogenesis. Dual RNA-Seq was used to study both pathogen evolution and host response simultaneously, allowing for examination of host response and viral adaptation over the course of infection. This approach may identify RNA species that would not present on a microarray chip, allowing for characterization of the host mRNAs that undergo a change in expression, leading to the identification of potential biomarkers. Simultaneously, sequencing the virus over time may also lead to the identification of novel variants, which could be of particular clinical importance in outbreak settings. Overall, this study demonstrates that next-generation mRNA sequencing is a powerful method to evaluate the interplay between the host and virus, and sequencing the virus over time may also lead to the identification of novel strains or variants.
 Working memory (WM) deficits are a core feature of schizophrenia (SZ), and previous research has primarily attributed these deficits to decreased capacity compared to healthy control (HC) subjects. However, recent developments in WM research suggest that precision is another important determinant of WM performance. In this study, the authors measured the performance of 60 SZ and 61 HC participants in a classical delay-estimation visual working memory (VWM) task and evaluated several influential computational models to disentangle the effect of various memory components.The results showed that the model assuming variable precision (VP) across items and trials was the best model to explain the performance of both groups. SZ exhibited abnormally larger variability of allocating memory resources rather than resources or capacity per se. Furthermore, individual differences in resource allocation variability predicted variation of symptom severity in SZ, highlighting its functional relevance to schizophrenic pathology.These findings provide an alternative view to the widely accepted decreased-capacity theory and shed new light on the utility of Bayesian observer models to characterize mechanisms of mental deficits in clinical neuroscience. The study also demonstrates the importance of performing systematic model comparisons before analyzing group differences on model parameters.
 This study identified a primary HIV-1 Env variant, Env E1, which consistently supports over 300% increased viral infectivity in the presence of autologous or heterologous HIV-positive plasma. The Env E1 variant, however, exhibited reduced infectivity in the absence of HIV-positive plasma, which was not due to decreased CD4 binding. Through the use of Env chimeras and sequence analysis, the study mapped this phenotype to a change in the gp41 heptad repeat 1 (HR1) region, specifically a change from glutamine (Q) to arginine (R) at position 563. This change, Q563R, disrupts the formation of the gp41 six-helix bundle required for virus-cell membrane fusion. However, antibodies that bind cluster I epitopes on gp41 overcome this inhibitory effect, restoring infectivity to wild-type levels. Additionally, the Q563R change increases HIV-1 sensitivity to broadly neutralizing antibodies targeting the gp41 membrane-proximal external region (MPER). Overall, this study contributes to our understanding of gp41 residues involved in membrane fusion and identifies a mechanism by which host factors can alleviate a viral defect.
 The COnsensus Molecular SUbtype of Cancer (COMSUC) web server was developed to address the challenges of identifying consensus molecular subtypes of cancer from extensive amounts of multi-omics data and discrepant clustering results. COMSUC provides a user-friendly tool for the integration of discrepant cancer clustering results generated by multiple methods and multi-omics data from multiple platforms. It uses eight typical clustering methods and three consensus clustering approaches to identify consensus molecular subtypes of more than 30 cancers. COMSUC is freely available at http://comsuc.bioinforai.tech/ (IP address: http://59.110.25.27/) and can be accessed with most web browsers. It provides interactive and modifiable visualization and publishable output of analysis results, and allows users to exchange consensus subtype results with collaborators via project IDs. COMSUC uses R for algorithms and MySQL for data management and storage. It can be used to identify consensus molecular subtypes using publicly available datasets from TCGA, ICGC, and TARGET, or users' private datasets. COMSUC uses the same feature selection algorithm for preprocessed public data and users' private data before clustering. It uses the "ComBat" function in the "sva" R package for batch effect correction and then performs feature selection before clustering. COMSUC integrates eight typical clustering methods and three consensus clustering algorithms to identify consensus molecular subtypes. It uses the Kaplan-Meier method for survival analysis and the "pamr" R package for subtype signatures. COMSUC provides intuitive analysis of publicly available datasets and allows users to upload their own data for analysis. It provides seven result types, which can be modified interactively for better presentation. COMSUC identifies cancer consensus molecular subtypes by dividing samples into clusters using eight typical clustering methods, integrating these clustering results using one of three consensus clustering methods, and then further integrating the clustering results based on omics data. COMSUC provides a powerful tool for users' efforts to decipher cancer consensus molecular subtypes and for the development of a consensus classification system integrating different clustering results.
 The study aimed to investigate the virome composition, host-virus co-divergence, and long-distance dispersal of tick-borne viruses in the seabird tick Ixodes uriae, which is distributed across both circumpolar regions. The researchers identified 16 RNA viruses, seven of which were novel. They found evidence of viral dispersal within and between the northern and southern circumpolar regions, suggesting that migratory birds play a role in transporting viruses between the poles. The study highlights the importance of the millions of birds that migrate across the globe and have the capacity to transfer viruses to and from adjacent and distant geographical areas.The researchers collected adult female Ixodes uriae ticks from Bonden island in northern Sweden and from a Gentoo penguin colony at Neko harbour in Antarctica. They extracted total RNA from 16 tick pools and performed ribosomal RNA depletion, library preparation, and paired-end sequencing. They identified viruses by screening against non-redundant nucleotide and protein databases and assessing potential endogenous viral elements. They determined the relative abundance of identified viruses by comparing the mapping results of the Ixodes uriae mitochondrial cytochrome C oxidase I gene against all RdRp containing contigs.The results showed that several previously discovered and novel viruses were identified, some of which have been shown to have pathogenic properties to birds and/or humans. The researchers found evidence of historic movement of viruses between the northern and southern circumpolar regions, suggesting that they have moved between the poles after the Ixodes uriae population diverged into two sub-populations. They also found that it is likely that virus-infected migratory birds transport viruses between the poles.The study suggests that the avian host likely functions as the dispersal agent of viruses among the circumpolar regions, while tick behavior and presence play a key role in the establishment and maintenance of viruses in circumpolar environments. The findings highlight the importance of understanding the role of migratory birds in the dispersal of tick-borne viruses and the potential impact on global health.
 RecombineX is a Linux-based computational framework designed for automated high-throughput tetrad analysis. It is a self-contained system that can be installed and configured via a pre-shipped installer script. RecombineX consists of a series of task-specific modules handling different workflow phases: genome and read preparation, parental marker identification, gamete read mapping and genotyping, and tetrad-based recombination event profiling. RecombineX supports both reference-based and parent-based modes. In the reference-based mode, a reference genome assembly and the short reads of the two crossing parents are required. In the parent-based mode, the native genome assemblies of both crossing parents and their short reads are needed. RecombineX identifies markers by aligning parental reads to the reference genome or parental genomes and filters out markers falling in repetitive or CNV regions. It then maps gamete reads to the reference genome or parental genome coordinate systems and performs genotyping. RecombineX uses a genotype purity filter to cull out markers with ambiguous genotype signals and infers missing genotypes by assuming a tetrad-wide 2:2 segregation ratio between the two parental genotypes. It further identifies and classifies recombination events into different categories. RecombineX's marker identification performance was evaluated using simulated data and was found to be highly reliable, recovering over 90% of valid marker targets with 30X parent reads. RecombineX's genotyping accuracy was also assessed using simulated data and was found to be consistent across different sequencing depths and Qnet cutoff values. RecombineX's recombination profiling performance was demonstrated to be accurate and robust using real budding yeast and green alga tetrads. RecombineX's parent-based mode enables analyzing recombination events in their native parental genome contexts, which is valuable for understanding the functional implications of recombination events. RecombineX's simulation module enables fine-tuned simulation-based hypothesis testing, revealing its power and accuracy even when analyzing tetrads with very low sequencing depths. Overall, RecombineX is a comprehensive platform for high-performance tetrad analysis, unifying different functional modules under an integrated framework and providing a generalized one-stop solution for tetrad analysis.
 The APOBEC3 (A3) genes encode cytidine deaminase proteins with antiviral and anti-retroelement activity. The human genome encodes seven A3 paralogs, including three single deaminase domain A3s (A3A, A3C, and A3H) and four double deaminase domain A3s (A3B, A3D, A3F, and A3G). The most potent A3 protein against HIV-1 is A3G, but it is unclear if double deaminase domain A3s have a generalized functional advantage to restrict HIV-1. To test if superior restriction factors could be created by genetically linking single A3 domains into synthetic double domains, researchers linked A3C and A3H single domains in novel combinations. They found that A3C/A3H double domains acquired enhanced antiviral activity that is at least as potent, if not better than, A3G. This gain of antiviral potency is conferred both by cytidine-deaminase dependent and independent mechanisms, with the latter correlating to an increase in RNA binding affinity. T cell lines expressing this A3C-A3H super restriction factor are able to control replicating HIV-1ΔVif infection to similar levels as A3G. These findings suggest that novel combinations of A3 domains are capable of gaining potent antiviral activity to levels similar to the most potent genome-encoded A3s, via a primarily non-catalytic mechanism.The human A3 proteins vary in their ability to restrict HIV-1, with human A3A and A3B having no antiviral activity against HIV-1, while human A3G is the most potent naturally found A3 against HIV-1 and other retroviruses. The human A3 locus has also diversified through polymorphisms that encode proteins with different antiviral activities. For example, the common form of A3C encodes a serine at position 188 and weakly inhibits HIV-1, but a natural variant that encodes for an isoleucine at position 188 has greater antiviral activity. Additionally, A3H has over four major haplotypes circulating in the human population with varying ability to restrict HIV-1.Lentiviruses, including HIV-1, have evolved to encode an antagonist, Vif, that abrogates restriction by inducing A3 degradation. Strain-dependent mutations in Vif affect its ability to degrade different A3H variants, indicating that viral polymorphisms also affect A3 activity. Despite the A3 gene variation in their potency, domain composition, and susceptibility to antagonism by Vif, there are combinations of human A3 proteins that remain unsampled. Novel combinations of human A3 proteins, such as A3C/A3H double domains, may prove to be more effective inhibitors of HIV-1 and are referred to as "super restriction factors."By creating novel double domains from poorly-restrictive single domain A3s, researchers have created a super restriction factor that is at least as potent as A3G even at the lowest end of protein expression. Previous studies have found a direct correlation of increase in packaging to potency of A3s. Therefore, researchers evaluated the packaging of A3C/A3H double domains to get packaged into virions. They found that A3C/A3H double domains have an increase in packaging relative to their single domain counterparts, with A3C-A3H being packaged 4.6-fold more than A3C and A3H-A3C being packaged 9.0-fold more than A3C. However, the increase in packaging alone does not fully explain the increase in antiviral activity, as A3C/A3H double domains have stronger affinity for binding RNA and inhibit reverse transcriptase formation through a deaminase-independent mechanism.In summary, by exploring the evolutionary space of the APOBEC3 locus in humans, researchers have discovered that novel combinations of poorly active antiviral A3 proteins can be created that are as potent as the most active A3 proteins. These super restriction factors function primarily through a deaminase-independent mechanism, which accounts for their greater antiviral activity relative to A3G.
 This study introduces TumE, a synthetic supervised learning approach for inferring ongoing selection and subclonal dynamics in bulk-sequenced tumor biopsies using variant allele frequency (VAF) information. TumE integrates simulated models of cancer evolution with Bayesian neural networks to accurately and efficiently detect positive selection, deconvolute selected subclonal populations, and estimate subclone frequency. The method significantly improves accuracy and inference time compared to existing methods and allows for transfer learning to be used for related evolutionary inference tasks, reducing data and computational time for further model development. The extensible framework provides a foundation for harnessing progressive computational methods for the benefit of cancer genomics and the cancer patient.The study generates synthetic data using two complementary approaches for tumors subject to positive selection and neutral evolution. For tumors simulated under positive selection, a well-established framework of cancer evolution is used, modeling exponential tumor growth under a stochastic branching process and allowing for a fully stochastic arrival of driver mutations with multiplicative fitness. For tumors evolving neutrally, a generative sampling process is used based on the observation that VAF distributions from tumors without positively selected subclones can be described by a power-law or Pareto distribution in conjunction with a dispersed clonal peak.TumE models are trained using synthetic VAF distributions and optimized using a neural network. The synthetic data generation framework is designed to generate neutral and positive synthetic tumors in pairs, ensuring that they are not out of distribution with each other. The method is shown to significantly improve accuracy and inference time compared to existing methods for detecting positive selection, deconvoluting selected subclonal populations, and estimating subclone frequency.Transfer learning is employed to leverage stored knowledge within TumE models for related evolutionary inference tasks, substantially reducing data and computational time for further model development. The method is validated in millions of synthetic tumors and applied to 88 copy-number and purity-corrected whole-genome and whole-exome sequenced tumor biopsies. The results demonstrate that TumE significantly outperforms frequency-based summary statistics and mixture models for inferring ongoing selection and subclonal dynamics in bulk-sequenced tumor biopsies.
 This study investigates the diversity and distribution of trypanosomes, the causative agents of African trypanosomiasis in humans (HAT) and animals (AAT), in the Southern Chad regions of Mandoul and Maro. The study collected 1,164 human and 640 cattle blood samples and 177 tsetse flies. Trypanosomal DNA was detected in 159 (34.4%) of 462 cattle from Maro, and 64 (82.1%) of 78 cattle from Mandoul. T. congolense was the most frequently detected species in Maro, while T. theileri was the most frequent in Mandoul. T. vivax was the most frequent in both human and tsetse samples. The study also identified an unknown Trypanosoma sp. in a human sample from Maro, and T. grayi and T. godfreyi in tsetse flies. The results suggest a higher diversity of Trypanosoma species in the Maro area than in Mandoul. The study highlights the importance of monitoring and controlling tsetse flies and other vectors to prevent the resurgence of HAT and AAT infections. The findings also emphasize the need to investigate the infectivity of the unknown trypanosome species regarding their zoonotic potential. The study should be widened to other trypanosome hosts to capture the whole diversity of circulating trypanosomes. The study was approved by the national bioethics committee and all participants gave written consent.
 Schistosoma hybridization is a significant evolutionary phenomenon that raises questions about species integrity. Inter-species hybridization occurs between Schistosoma haematobium and S. bovis, which can cause public health and veterinary issues. Recent genomic evidence suggests that some S. haematobium populations show signatures of genomic introgression from S. bovis. In this study, 19 isolates from a wide geographical range across Africa were analyzed, including 11 S. haematobium, 6 S. bovis, and 2 hybrids.Using whole genome sequencing, 56,181 biallelic SNPs were developed, which allowed clear differentiation between S. haematobium and S. bovis isolates. All S. haematobium isolates except the one from Madagascar displayed signatures of genomic introgression from S. bovis. The Invadolysin gene, an introgressed tract previously detected in some introgressed S. haematobium populations, was identified in isolates from Egypt, Corsica, and Mali.The results suggest that introgression from S. bovis is widespread across S. haematobium and that the observed introgression is unidirectional. The low genetic diversity in the S. haematobium cluster compared to the S. bovis cluster and the absence of geographic structure in S. haematobium at the African continent scale confirm previous findings that S. haematobium is a genetically depauperate species compared to other Schistosoma species. The SNPs developed in this study will be a valuable tool for future studies to better understand the evolutionary history of S. haematobium, S. bovis, and S. haematobium-bovis hybrids, and facilitate deeper insights into the epidemiology of schistosomiasis across Africa.
 Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) vaccines have not been successful in clinical trials. Secretory IgA (sIgA) in the form of dimeric IgA (dIgA) is a prime candidate for potential HIV vaccines due to its abundance in mucosal tissues, including the colon, a primary site for HIV transmission. To investigate the role of dIgA in HIV interaction with mucosal barriers and viral penetration in colorectal tissue, researchers used PET imaging and fluorescent microscopy to determine the distribution and localization of 64Cu-labeled, photoactivatable-GFP HIV (PA-GFP-BaL) and fluorescently labeled dIgA.The results showed that HIV virions rapidly disseminate throughout the colon two hours after exposure. The presence of dIgA resulted in an increase in virions and penetration depth in the transverse colon. Moreover, virions were found in the mesenteric lymph nodes two hours after viral exposure, and the presence of dIgA led to an increase in virions in mesenteric lymph nodes. These findings enable in vivo and in situ visualization of antibody-virus interactions and detailed investigations of early events in HIV infection.dIgA antibodies play an important immunological role in the mucosa, primarily preventing further infection by immune exclusion. In the gut, IgA has two subclasses, IgA1 and IgA2, which differ structurally from each other in their hinge region. Both IgA1 and IgA2 have the ability to bind and sequester pathogens, creating the need to study the role of both in potential protection from HIV rectal transmission. IgA plays an important immunological role in the mucosa by preventing further infection through immune exclusion. In this process, dIgA binds pathogens while associating with mucus, cell-associated mucins, and other factors in the glycocalyx, thus trapping and excluding the pathogen's ability to enter underlying tissues.Vaccines can protect hosts from infection by directing the production of antibodies that form immune complexes with antigens. While there is currently no effective vaccine for HIV, one that elicits a response in the IgA class might be a strong candidate given the high concentration of IgA in colorectal tissue. IgA plays an important immunological role in the mucosa, primarily preventing further infection through immune exclusion. In the gut, IgA has two subclasses, IgA1 and IgA2, which differ structurally from each other in their hinge region. Both IgA1 and IgA2 have the ability to bind and sequester pathogens, creating the need to study the role of both in potential protection from HIV rectal transmission.To gain insights into the ability of dIgA antibodies to mediate protection from mucosal challenge, researchers previously developed a non-human primate (NHP) model to examine the potential role mucosal IgA has in protection against rectal challenge with SHIV-1157-ipEL-p, a clade C, tier 1 CCR5-tropic virus. Through investigating the role of IgG1, dIgA1, and dIgA2 isotypes of the HIV-specific HGN194 monoclonal antibody specificity in SHIV-1157-ipEL-p rectal acquisition in rhesus macaques (RMs), they found that HGN194 dIgA1, rectally applied 30 minutes before rectal challenge, provided 83% protection (5 out of 6 animals), whereas HGN194 dIgA2 only protected 17% of the RMs (1/6). Intravenous HGN194 IgG1 given at a low dose provided 0% protection (0/6), but giving both intravenous low-dose HGN194 IgG1 and rectally applied HGN194 dIgA2 treatments afforded 100% protection (6/6).Despite the promise provided by these observations of IgA function to prevent rectal transmission in a RM model, mechanistic insights to the role mucosal dIgA could play in mediating the prevention of HIV acquisition when combined with an IgG that cannot block infection but instead causes a slight delay in the peak vir
 Iliski is an open-source software dedicated to the computation of Transfer Functions (TFs) between two signals, designed to address the complex relationships between biological signals. It offers various pre-treatment routines and TF computation processes, including deconvolution and optimization algorithms. Iliski was applied to neurovascular coupling (NVC) data, highlighting its benefits and caveats in TF computation and evaluation. The software is available on GitHub and can be used on common operating systems, either within the MATLAB environment or as a standalone application.Iliski's features include two input file formats, smoothing functions, and interpolation options. It offers two main types of TF computation: deconvolution and function optimization. Deconvolution is straightforward and does not require specific settings, while function optimization requires further settings depending on the chosen algorithm. Users can input their own function or add it to the default ones. The TF dimension is user-defined, with settings for TF duration and 'Sampling Time' parameters.Iliski uses the Pearson coefficient and residual sum of squares as evaluation metrics. The Pearson coefficient focuses on the dynamic, allowing for inter-subject comparisons, while the residual sum of squares evaluates the overall fit, considering the amplitude of the prediction. The optimization algorithms tested in the study all use the residual sum of squares as the cost function.Iliski allows for loading previously computed results structures and saving results as XLS files, MAT-files, or in the Matlab workspace. It is accessible both as a GUI and as a set of functions to be used in scripts. It was developed using Matlab R2018a and has dependencies on the Optimization Toolbox, Signal Processing Toolbox, and Global Optimization Toolbox. Common user errors are prevented by various messages and fail safes, and all errors are treated and saved in a log file for efficient bug-fixing.The software was initially developed for data analysis in Biology but has features suitable for diverse applications. It was used in a study on multi-modal recordings of neurovascular coupling using two-photon microscopy and ultra-fast functional ultrasound. The study tested many deconvolution and optimization algorithms to choose the best-suited approach for the required task. Iliski is a valuable tool for understanding complex relationships between biological signals and can be used to extract TFs from time series data in various fields.
 The Zika virus, transmitted by Aedes mosquitoes, can cause Congenital Zika Syndrome (CZS) if a mother contracts it before or during pregnancy. CZS can lead to feeding difficulties due to physical and developmental consequences such as microcephaly, dysphagia, and an increased likelihood of choking. A qualitative evidence synthesis was conducted to inform WHO infant feeding guidelines, focusing on the values and preferences of stakeholders regarding infant feeding in the presence of CZS and severe disability and nonprogressive, chronic encephalopathies. Six CZS studies and eight indirect studies were included, highlighting the preference for breastfeeding, the importance of support and advice from healthcare professionals, and the desire for individual maternal autonomy in feeding decisions. Confidence in most findings ranged from low to moderate. The evidence base has limitations, but consistently reported that parents of children with feeding difficulties due to CZS or similar conditions need information, advice, and counselling, as well as substantial emotional support. However, optimal feeding and support strategies for this population have not yet been identified. Practical and economic concerns around having a child with CZS or other neurodevelopmental disorders that impair infant feeding add to the stress and anxiety experienced by mothers and infants. Indirect evidence from mothers of infants with cerebral palsy suggests that group workshops for women with affected infants may be helpful in addressing deficiencies in the wider health system. Further research is needed to determine the most effective and feasible ways to provide information and support to mothers and infants in the context of CZS and other neurodevelopmental disorders.
 This study describes the detailed characterization of computationally designed tetrahedral, octahedral, and icosahedral nanoparticle immunogens displaying trimeric HIV envelope glycoprotein (Env) ectodomains. The nanoparticles were engineered with SOSIP stabilizing mutations and presented twenty or four copies of the Env trimer. The results showed that the nanoparticle immunogens possessed the intended structural and antigenic properties and elicited similar serum antibody binding titers against the trimer component when compared to soluble proteins. However, neutralizing antibody titers were slightly elevated in animals given the nanoparticle immunogen and were initially more focused to the trimer apex. The findings suggest that tetrahedral nanoparticles can be successfully applied for presentation of HIV Env trimer immunogens, but the optimal implementation to different immunization strategies remains to be determined. The study also highlights the importance of multivalent particulate antigen presentation for HIV vaccine development, as it can lead to strong avidity-enhanced interactions with B-cell receptors, efficient crosslinking and opsonization by mannose-binding lectin, and improved trafficking through the lymphatic system.
 Pseudorabies virus (PRV) is a member of the alphaherpesvirus subfamily, which infects a broad range of vertebrates including swine and humans. PRV infection can lead to devastating disease and economic losses, and recent studies have shown that variant PRV can infect humans, causing severe damage to the nervous and respiratory systems. PRV has a large linear double-stranded DNA genome that encodes over 70 functional proteins, some of which have been shown to inhibit host innate antiviral responses.One such protein is PRV tegument protein UL13, which has been identified as a suppressor of STING-mediated signaling to inhibit IFN production and antiviral response during PRV infection. UL13 interacts with STING in the cytosol and impairs STING protein stability, while knockdown or deficiency of UL13 enhances the protein stability of STING. UL13 recruits the E3 ubiquitin ligase RING finger protein 5 (RNF5) to promote K27-/K29-linked ubiquitination and degradation of STING, thereby impairing STING-mediated production of type I IFNs and expression of other downstream antiviral factors.The findings suggest that PRV UL13 functions as an antagonist of IFN signaling via a novel mechanism by targeting STING to persistently evade host antiviral responses. This study provides new insights into the strategies used by PRV to evade the host immune response and highlights the importance of understanding the molecular mechanisms of viral immune evasion for the development of effective vaccines and therapeutics.
 Arthropod-borne viruses, such as Zika virus (ZIKV), require replication across a wide range of temperatures to perpetuate. Mosquito vectors are subject to ambient temperatures, which can have daily fluctuations of over 10°C. Temperature impacts vector competence, extrinsic incubation period, and mosquito survival unimodally, with optimal conditions occurring at some intermediate temperature. However, the impact of temperature on arbovirus genetic diversity during systemic mosquito infection is poorly understood.To investigate how constant extrinsic incubation temperatures (EITs) of 25°C, 28°C, 32°C, and 35°C control ZIKV vector competence and population dynamics within Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus mosquitoes, the authors conducted experiments using a Puerto Rican isolate of ZIKV. They found that vector competence varied in a unimodal manner for constant temperatures, peaking between 28°C and 32°C for both Aedes species. Transmission peaked at 10 days post-infection for Aedes aegypti and 14 days for Aedes albopictus. However, fluctuating temperature decreased vector competence.Using RNA-seq to characterize ZIKV population structure, the authors identified that temperature alters the selective environment in unexpected ways. During mosquito infection, constant temperatures more often elicited positive selection, whereas fluctuating temperatures led to strong purifying selection in both Aedes species. These findings demonstrate that temperature has multiple impacts on ZIKV biology, including major effects on the selective environment within mosquitoes.
 In the study, the authors investigated the neural basis of olfactory integration in Caenorhabditis elegans by characterizing the circuit mechanisms underlying the response to a repulsive odorant, 2-nonanone, and an attractive odorant, isoamyl alcohol (IAA). They found that the presence of 2-nonanone strongly blocks the attraction of IAA, and this effect is regulated by genes known to regulate the structure and function of sensory neurons, osm-5 and osm-1. The authors also identified redundant neural circuits that regulate the robust effect of a repulsive odorant to block responses to attractive odorants. The results provide insights into the neuronal and cellular basis of complex olfactory tasks.Caenorhabditis elegans is attracted to various odorants, including IAA, which signals food. However, the chemotactic response to IAA can be disrupted by the presence of a repellent, such as DEET, or a hyperosmotic solution. The authors used a behavior paradigm to study the integration of attractive and repulsive odorants, specifically 2-nonanone and IAA. They found that the presence of 2-nonanone completely blocks the attraction of IAA in behavior and alters the responses of AWB sensory neurons and downstream interneurons evoked by IAA.The authors conducted a forward genetic screen to identify genes involved in olfactory integration and identified three mutants, yx51, yx50, and yx49, which were defective in olfactory chemotaxis and olfactory integration. They also found that these mutants showed dramatically increased portions of animals that made incorrect choices when tested in chemotaxis and olfactory integration assays.The authors sequenced the genomes of all three mutant strains and identified causal mutations in each strain. They found that the phenotype of yx51 was rescued by expressing wild-type osm-5 cDNA sequence driven by an osm-5 promoter, and the phenotype of yx50 was rescued by expressing fosmid WRM0638dE09 that contains the genomic region of osm-1. The results suggest that the mutations in osm-5 and osm-1 disrupt olfactory integration by altering the function of sensory neurons.The authors also found that yx49, yx50, and yx51 were all defective in dye-filling, revealing impaired cilia in these mutant animals. They identified a C to T mutation that changed proline 208 of DYF-7 to serine in yx49. dyf-7 encodes an extracellular matrix protein that regulates the anchoring of dendrite tip during the development of sensory neurons.The authors propose that IAA signals are blocked by 2-nonanone signals in both the sensory neurons and interneurons and that olfactory integration is achieved through reducing IAA-related responses at multiple steps of signal transmission. They also suggest that 2-nonanone evoked signaling silences AVA to abolish IAA-induced suppression. Overall, the study provides insights into the neural mechanisms underlying olfactory integration in Caenorhabditis elegans.
 The study explores the potential of Schistosoma mansoni egg-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) as a vaccine candidate against murine schistosomiasis. EVs were isolated from cultured S. mansoni eggs using ultracentrifugation and characterized by transmission electron microscopy and Lowry's protein quantification. Mice were immunized with three doses of EVs, either with or without alum adjuvant, and challenged with S. mansoni cercariae two weeks after the last immunizing dose. Results showed a significant reduction in tegumentally deranged adult worms, hepatic and intestinal egg counts, and hepatic granuloma sizes, accompanied by remarkable amelioration of their histopathology. Western immunoblotting identified two protein bands of ~14 KDa and ~21 KDa in the sera from vaccinated mice, suggesting that EVs are able to stimulate a specific antibody response. The study highlights the potential of S. mansoni egg-derived EVs as a promising vaccine candidate against murine schistosomiasis.
 Mycetoma, a chronic, inflammatory subcutaneous infection caused by fungi or filamentous bacteria, is a neglected tropical disease with limited data on its burden and complications in Uganda. A retrospective study was conducted to estimate the burden of mycetoma in Uganda by reviewing biopsy reports and published literature. Over a 70-year period (1950-2019), 279 cases were identified, with 30 cases from literature review and 249 cases from biopsy reports. The average incidence was estimated at 0.32/100,000 persons per decade, and the prevalence was 8.32/100,000 persons. Males aged 21-30 were the most affected, and the foot was the most commonly affected body part. Fungi were the most common causative agents, followed by Nocardia species and Actinomycetes. The index of clinical suspicion was low, and diagnosis relied on the presence of multiple nodules and numerous sinuses discharging grains. The study highlights the need for more systematic studies to define the true burden of mycetoma in Uganda. The limitations of the study include the lack of data on treatment and missing data from biopsy reports. Mycetoma is a rare disease in Uganda, and there is a significant gap in data and epidemiological studies. Further studies, including active community-based case findings, are warranted.
 Malaysia's goal to eliminate malaria nationwide by 2020 needs to be extended due to the emergence of simian malaria caused by Plasmodium parasites in humans. While human malaria transmission has been eliminated, simian malaria parasites such as P. knowlesi, P. cynomolgi, P. inui, and P. fieldi are the new causes of malaria in humans. These parasites are primarily found in macaques, which are the reservoir hosts.Several studies have been conducted in Malaysia to assess the prevalence and diversity of Plasmodium infection among macaques. However, there is no detailed systematic review on the simian malaria prevalence in Malaysia over the past 20 years. Therefore, this study aimed to collect relevant published studies related to the prevalence of Plasmodium species in macaques and the prevalence of infection types through a systematic review from years 2000–2021.The search was conducted using the search term ["Plasmodium" AND "Simian Malaria" AND "Malaysia"] in six databases: Google Scholar, PubMed, CrossRef, Science Direct, Scopus, and Web of Science. Seven articles were selected for data extraction, and all studies showed positive detection of Plasmodium parasites in macaques. The most prevalent Plasmodium species in macaques was P. inui (49.27%), followed by P. knowlesi (26.86%), P. cynomolgi (33.05%), and P. fieldi (4.76%). The prevalence of simian malaria infection type was mono-infection (9.00%), dual-infection (10.00%), triple-infection (10.50%), and quadruple-infection (23.00%).The prevalence of simian malaria was higher in East Malaysia (97.00%) compared to Peninsular Malaysia (45.18%). The forest cover has played an essential role in the prevalence of the disease, as macaques in rural/forested areas were more infected by Plasmodium compared to macaques that live in urban/city areas. East Malaysia has more forest cover compared to Peninsular Malaysia, which is more developed.To reduce simian plasmodium transmission to humans, present malaria prevention initiatives may need to be revised or new approaches created. The authorities, such as The Wildlife Department, might screen macaques for malaria parasites and restrict their population, while public health policies should focus on raising awareness of knowlesi malaria and zoonotic malaria as a whole and ensuring that procedures are in place for timely accurate diagnosis and treatment, particularly in high-risk areas. The use of mosquito repellents, patches, and nets should be encouraged for people living or entering high-risk areas.In conclusion, simian malaria caused by Plasmodium parasites in macaques is an emerging cause of malaria in humans in Malaysia. More simian malaria epidemiology studies among macaques and Anopheles vectors should be carried out to assess the risk of macaques-human infection.
 Latent Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection is strongly associated with various malignancies, including B-cell lymphomas and epithelial tumors. EBNA1, a key antigen expressed in all EBV-associated tumors during latency, is required for maintaining the EBV episome DNA and regulating viral gene transcription. However, the mechanism used by EBV to maintain latent infection at the post-translational level remains unclear. In this study, researchers report that EBNA1 contains two SUMO-interacting motifs (SIM2 and SIM3) and that mutation of SIM2 disrupts EBNA1 dimerization, while SIM3 contributes to the polySUMO2 modification of EBNA1 at lysine 477 in vitro. Furthermore, SIM3 is required for the EBNA1-mediated inhibitory effects on SUMO2-modified STUB1, SUMO2-mediated degradation of USP7, and SUMO1-modified KAP1. Deletion of the EBNASIM motif leads to functional loss of both EBNA1-mediated viral episome maintenance and lytic gene silencing. Importantly, hypoxic stress induces the SUMO2 modification of EBNA1, leading to the dissociation of EBNA1 with STUB1, KAP1, and USP7 to increase the SUMO1 modification of both STUB1 and KAP1 for reactivation of lytic replication. The EBNA1SIM motif plays an essential role in EBV latency and is a potential therapeutic target against EBV-associated cancers. EBNA1, as a homolog of LANA encoded by Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV), is involved in maintaining the stability of the EBV episome and regulating host and viral gene transcriptions. The findings from this study provide new insights into the regulation of EBV latency and lytic replication, which could lead to potential therapeutic targets against EBV-associated cancers.
 This study aimed to improve our understanding of the genes regulating grain yield in wheat by focusing on the genes affecting spikelet number per spike (SNS). Previously, a highly significant QTL for SNS was identified on chromosome arm 7AL in multiple genome-wide association studies. Using a high-resolution genetic map, the researchers identified the A-genome homeolog of WHEAT ORTHOLOG OF APO1 (WAPO-A1) as a leading candidate gene for this QTL.Through mutant and transgenic plant analysis, the researchers demonstrated that WAPO-A1 is the causal gene underpinning the SNS QTL. Loss-of-function mutants wapo-A1 and wapo-B1 showed reduced SNS, and transgenic wheat plants carrying extra copies of WAPO-A1 had higher SNS, a more compact spike apical region, and a smaller terminal spikelet than the wild type. The results suggest that WAPO1 affects SNS by regulating the timing of terminal spikelet formation.Both transgenic and wapo1 mutant plants showed a wide range of floral abnormalities, indicating additional roles of WAPO1 on wheat floral development. The researchers also identified three widespread haplotypes in the QTL region, each associated with particular WAPO-A1 alleles. The WAPO-A1 allele in the H1 haplotype, which is expressed at significantly lower levels in the developing spikes than the alleles in the H2 and H3 haplotypes, is responsible for reduced SNS. Field experiments showed that the H2 haplotype is associated with the strongest effects in increasing SNS and grain number per spike (GNS) (H2>H3>H1). The H2 haplotype is already present in most modern common wheat varieties but is rare in durum wheat, where it might be particularly useful to improve grain yield.In summary, this study identified WAPO1 as the causal gene for the 7AL SNS QTL and demonstrated its positive effects on spikelet and grain number per spike in wheat. The findings provide wheat breeders with a new tool to improve sink traits with limited effects on heading time. The introgression of the H2 haplotype into varieties that are not limited in source traits can potentially result in increases in total grain yield in favorable environments.
