 Nongenetic phenotypic variation, specifically gene expression noise, can significantly impact the rate of adaptive evolution in bacteria. In environments where carbon and energy sources fluctuate, gene expression noise can accelerate the evolutionary process by decreasing population bottlenecks and increasing the fitness of a population. This is because noise can increase the probability that cells initiate growth on inferior carbon sources, reducing the severity of bottlenecks and increasing the mean population fitness. Additionally, gene expression noise can enhance the fitness effects of beneficial alleles by increasing their frequency and protecting them from extinction during bottlenecks. The principle of noise-enhanced adaptation applies to a broad range of environments and organisms, as fluctuating environments are common in nature.The model used in this study focuses on the evolution of the lag time that bacteria need to resume growth after a change in carbon source. The model assumes that cells can be in two states on acetate, one with high fbp and low pep concentrations, and the other with high pep and low fbp concentrations. The first state involves a low glycolytic flux, which results in a low Cra activity and a low probability of growth on acetate. The second state involves a high Cra activity, which promotes the intake of acetate and its conversion into pep, allowing for growth. The model predicts that greater gene expression noise can increase the fitness of a population in fluctuating environments, augment the fitness increase derived from beneficial mutations, and accelerate the rate of evolutionary adaptation to the new environment.In summary, nongenetic phenotypic variation, specifically gene expression noise, can significantly impact the rate of adaptive evolution in bacteria by decreasing population bottlenecks, increasing the fitness of a population, and enhancing the fitness effects of beneficial alleles in fluctuating environments. The findings from this study are not limited to bacteria but can be extended to other organisms experiencing periodic changes in their environment that are associated with a reduction in population size.
 Arthropod-borne viruses, such as dengue virus (DENV), infect both mosquito and mammalian hosts. While much is known about virus-host interactions that regulate viral gene expression in mammalian hosts, less is understood about the interactions that involve inhibition, subversion, or avoidance strategies in the mosquito host. A novel RNA-Protein interaction detection assay, RaPID (RNA-Protein Interaction Detection), was used to identify mosquito proteins that form complexes with the DENV 3’UTR in mosquito cells. Two mosquito proteins, Sec61A1 and Loquacious (Loqs), were found to interact with DENV RNA and have pro-viral functions in the dengue viral infectious cycle.Sec61A1 is an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated protein that is predicted to be a non-canonical RNA binding protein. It has been shown to inhibit DENV replication in both mammalian and mosquito cells. Loqs is a dsRNA-binding protein that interacts with the Dicer (Dcr) and Argonaute (Ago) proteins to regulate the RNAi pathway, a central immune defense mechanism in mosquito cells. Surprisingly, Loqs was also found to interact with the DENV genomic RNA and facilitate viral replication, independent of its role in the RNAi pathway.RaPID identified Sec61A1 and Loqs as high confidence hits that could potentially interact with the DENV 3’UTR in mosquito cells. Depletion of these proteins using RNA interference in Aag2 cells, a mosquito cell line, resulted in a significant reduction in DENV RNA abundances and viral titer. These findings suggest that both Sec61A1 and Loqs have pro-viral functions in DENV-infected mosquito cells.The RaPID approach also identified ATX2, a protein that displays 24% identity to human ATX2 and interacts with several DEAD box RNA helicases involved in RNA processing pathways both in mosquitos and humans. It was also recently shown to interact with ZIKV and WNV sfRNAs in mosquito cells. However, ATX2 was enriched with a slightly lower SAINT probability score in the experiments, and further investigation is needed to determine its role in DENV infection.In summary, the RaPID system was designed to identify proteins that interact with the DENV 3’UTR in mosquito cells. Two high confidence hits, Sec61A1 and Loqs, were identified as potential interactors. Depletion of these proteins using RNA interference resulted in a significant reduction in DENV RNA abundances and viral titer, suggesting that both Sec61A1 and Loqs have pro-viral functions in DENV-infected mosquito cells. Further investigation is needed to determine the roles of these proteins in the infectious cycles of other RNA viruses.
 This study investigates the impact of temporal environmental variations on community diversity in the context of competing populations. The researchers present a quantitative analysis of two-species and diverse communities, comparing scenarios with periodic and stochastic environmental variations and global or local competition dynamics. In two-species communities, stochastic variations yield shorter persistence times due to the ability to allow for rare sequences of bad years. In diverse communities, the actual number of temporal niches plays a crucial role, with larger numbers increasing both species richness and evenness under global competition and periodic variations. Surprisingly, when the number of temporal niches is small, global competition decreases species richness and evenness due to increased effective fitness differences. The study provides insights into the role of environmental variations in promoting taxonomic and genetic diversity.
 Functional non-coding RNAs (fncRNAs) are a diverse class of RNA molecules that play crucial roles in regulating gene expression, maintaining genome stability, and contributing to human health and disease. To understand the determinants of function in these molecules, researchers have sought to adapt the Evolutionary Trace (ET) paradigm, which has been extensively validated in protein research, to predict functional nucleotides in RNA from their evolutionary history.ET is a method that identifies functionally important residues in proteins by correlating sequence variations with evolutionary divergences. It makes two assumptions: that sequence variations during evolution are akin to sampling the sequence-function space via wet lab mutations, and that the depth of divergence between two sequences is commensurate with their functional difference. By systematically tallying the variations that track mostly with deep phylogenetic divergence, ET assigns a greater (or lesser) relative rank of evolutionary importance to each sequence position.In RNA research, ET has been shown to identify nucleotides of functional importance in multiple sequence alignments of homologous fncRNAs. For example, in the hammerhead ribozyme, ET nucleotides cluster with a mean z-score zc35% of 3.9 and overlap the catalytic core of the molecule. Similarly, in the bacterial ribosome, ET nucleotides broadly overlap major functional sites, such as the peptidyl-transferase center in 23S and the decoding center in 16S, with mean ET overlap z-scores zo35% of 3.9 and 0.91, respectively.ET also overlaps protein binding sites in the ribosome, with mean ET z-scores zo35% of 4.8 in the 16S rRNA and 9.2 in the 23S, and AUC values of 0.84 and 0.94, respectively. ET bases also overlap the critical structural bridges in the 23S, but not the 16S subunit, due to differences in the molecular basis of the bridge contacts.In summary, ET is a powerful tool for identifying functional nucleotides in RNA from their evolutionary history. It can be used to predict functional sites in RNA structures, reveal details on the basis of RNA molecular functions, and is currently available as part of the ET command-line package and as a web-server. The generalization of ET to RNA shows that evolutionary constraints among sequence, structure, and function are similar in structured RNA and proteins.
 This paper proposes a method for identifying the source of an epidemic outbreak using a multivariate Gaussian mixture model and a stochastic spatially-explicit epidemiological model. The source detection problem is recast as identifying the relevant mixture component in a multivariate Gaussian mixture model, with parameters calibrated using a human mobility network and a stochastic epidemiological model. The approach is Bayesian, allowing for the incorporation of prior information and uncertainty quantification. The method is demonstrated to perform well in the context of the 2000-2002 cholera outbreak in the KwaZulu-Natal province of South Africa, outperforming the Gaussian mixture approach of Pinto et al. (2013) in simulation. The framework allows for the preliminary delineation of a roadmap to set up a surveillance network based on the proposed method in a country. The first step is to collect data on population distribution and WASH (Water, Sanitation and Hygiene) conditions, followed by the setup of a spatially-explicit stochastic epidemiological model and simulations to calibrate the parameters of the probability distributions of first-arrival times. The approach is equivalent to standard linear discriminant analysis for K-dimensional classification, with pre-defined class weights. The HPD (Highest Posterior Density) region is used to obtain a set estimate for the source, which minimizes the volume of the area covered among all sets with at least 1 − α posterior mass. The mean and covariance parameters of each Gaussian component are calibrated using a stochastic epidemiological model that integrates human mobility network information. The stochastic epidemiological model for cholera transmission considers a set of human communities interconnected by a mobility network and describes the temporal evolution of susceptible, infected, and recovered individuals hosted in the nodes, as well as the evolution of the environmental concentration of bacteria. The model treats events that involve human individuals as stochastic events, each occurring at a rate that depends on the state of the system. The force of infection is defined as the rate at which susceptible individuals become infected due to contact with contaminated water, and depends on the local concentration and the concentration in the surrounding communities, weighted by the probability of an individual traveling to the destination. Human mobility patterns are defined according to a gravity model, which defines the probability of an individual living in node i reaching the destination j based on the population size and the distance between the communities. The concentration is modeled as a stochastic variable in continuous time, based on the expectation of a large number of bacteria. The model allows for the generation of multiple Monte Carlo realizations of the outbreak, from which estimates of the mean and covariance parameters for the first-arrival times at the observers can be obtained. The approach is shown to perform well if the source has moderate or larger R0 and population, but decay in performance may be due to a lack of fit with the assumed multivariate Gaussian in the mixture model at the core of the framework. The use of more general mixture models or a mixture of epidemiological models may help, but integrating these models with an underlying epidemiological model is not immediately apparent. The proposed method may be viewed as a compromise that allows for increased interpretability and computational efficiency, blending statistical and mathematical modeling in the spirit of data assimilation techniques.
 Recent advances in multiplex imaging techniques have enabled the capture of extensive information from a single tissue sample using panels with dozens of markers. However, the limited space on these panels necessitates careful marker selection to avoid losing biologically relevant information while maximizing efficiency. In this study, we propose computational approaches to determine the shared information between markers and select an optimally reduced panel that captures the maximum amount of information with the fewest markers.We evaluated several panel selection methods, including correlation-based selection, sparse subspace-based selection, and gradient-based selection, using a breast cancer tissue microarray dataset with cyclic immunofluorescence staining as a proof of concept. The results showed that all methods performed adequately, allowing for the reconstruction of cell types using only 18 of 25 markers (72% of the original panel size). The correlation-based selection methods achieved the best single-cell marker mean intensity predictions, with a Spearman correlation of 0.90 between the reduced panel and the full panel.By using these methods, researchers can design more efficient multiplex imaging panels that maximize the amount of information retained while minimizing the number of markers, ultimately saving time, effort, and resources. Additionally, removing easily predicted markers from panels will allow researchers to introduce new markers that capture unique information not already conveyed by other markers on the panel.However, it is important to note that these methods require an initial round of staining to measure marker interactions and evaluate panel self-correlation. After an initial pilot panel, these optimally reduced panels can improve experiment time and expense by decreasing the number of staining rounds required. Future research could focus on designing panels for new datasets and patient samples without the need for retraining, as well as identifying which markers are consistently well predicted and which consistently fail regardless of panel reduction method.
 Leptospirosis is a zoonotic disease caused by the bacterium Leptospira interrogans, which can lead to acute and chronic kidney disease (CKD) in humans and animals. In this study, researchers used a hamster model to investigate the dynamics of leptospires and histopathological changes in the kidney during the acute and chronic phases of leptospirosis.The researchers infected hamsters with the Leptospira interrogans serovar Manilae strain UP-MMC-SM and observed that some hamsters developed fatal acute leptospirosis, while others recovered from the acute infection and became chronic carriers. The results showed that the increase in antibody titers during the acute phase was necessary for survival, and the distribution of leptospires in the kidney during the acute phase may have influenced the extent of tubular atrophy and CKD in the chronic phase.The researchers also found that the pathogenicity of the leptospires decreased as the storage period became longer, even in low-passaged strains. The kidneys of surviving hamsters showed no hemorrhage but some atrophy in the chronic phase. The distribution of leptospires in the renal interstitium during the acute phase was consistent with the lesions of tubular atrophy in the chronic phase, suggesting that tubular atrophy may occur in the presence of leptospires in the interstitial tissue.The researchers also measured serum creatinine levels in the surviving hamsters during the chronic phase to investigate the relationship between leptospirosis and the decline of renal function. The results showed that the serum creatinine levels of the surviving hamsters were significantly higher in the high tubular atrophy group compared to the low tubular atrophy group and the uninfected control group. The kidneys of hamsters infected with strains stored for two months or less showed higher atrophic tubules scores in the chronic phase compared to strains stored for 3, 4, and 7 months.The study also showed that the inflammatory response induced during acute infection, but not during chronic infection, plays a major role in Leptospira nephropathy in hamsters. The results suggest that the inflammatory response may be an important factor in influencing the outcome of leptospirosis.However, the study had some limitations, including the specificity of the results to the highly pathogenic serovar Manilae and the lack of data on normal serum creatinine levels in hamsters. Further studies are needed to understand the influence of long-term storage strains on infection and the effect of chronic renal colonization with Leptospira in susceptible animals. Overall, the study provides important insights into the dynamics of leptospires and the development of CKD in leptospirosis.
 Talaromycosis, caused by the thermally dimorphic fungus Talaromyces marneffei, is a serious and fatal disease endemic in Southeast Asia, particularly in China's Guangxi region. HIV-infected individuals are at high risk of developing talaromycosis, which has a significant in-hospital mortality rate. The factors influencing in-hospital death in HIV/AIDS patients with talaromycosis are not fully understood. Machine learning techniques can be used to develop a predictive model to identify relevant prognostic factors and reduce in-hospital mortality.A prospective study was conducted at the Fourth People's Hospital of Nanning, Guangxi, from January 2012 to June 2019, enrolling 1927 HIV/AIDS patients with talaromycosis. The average in-hospital mortality rate was 13.3%. The most common complications/coinfections were pneumonia (68.9%), oral candida (47.5%), and tuberculosis (40.6%). Deceased patients showed higher CD4/CD8 ratios, aspartate aminotransferase (AST) levels, creatinine levels, urea levels, uric acid (UA) levels, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels, total bilirubin levels, creatine kinase levels, white blood-cell counts (WBC), neutrophil counts, procaicltonin levels, and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels and lower CD3+ T-cell count, CD8+ T-cell count, and lymphocyte counts, platelet (PLT), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL), hemoglobin (Hb) levels.The XGBoost machine learning model was developed and tested to predict the treatment outcome of hospitalized patients. The model exhibited good discrimination for the prediction of death during patient hospitalization, with a sensitivity and specificity of approximately 70% for both the training and test sets. The model showed no decrease in performance between the training data and test validation, indicating no overfitting. The SHAP value of each feature was used to describe the impact of features on the outcome. Septic shock and respiratory failure were the most important variables affecting death, along with serum uric acid, urea, platelet, and AST/ALT levels.The XGBoost predictive model offers relatively high accuracy in detecting the risk of in-hospital death in a population of 28.7% patients treated with current standard ART therapies during the study period. The results highlight the importance of respiratory failure, shock, urea levels, and platelet levels in predicting adverse outcomes, such as death. Further research is needed to clarify the significance of these indicators for death and correctly identify and predict the prognosis of patients.
 Toxocariasis, caused by Toxocara canis and Toxocara cati, is a neglected parasitic zoonosis and health disparity in the United States, particularly in socioeconomically disadvantaged groups. A study in New York City found that Toxocara eggs were widespread in public spaces, with the highest contamination rate in the Bronx (66.7%) and the lowest in Manhattan (29.6%). Infective embryonated eggs were only found in the Bronx playgrounds, and T. cati was the predominant species. These findings suggest that feral or untreated cats in New York City are a significant source of environmental contamination. Human ingestion of embryonated eggs through contaminated soil or uncleaned vegetables can lead to paratenic zoonotic toxocariasis, which may result in cognitive and developmental delays, lung dysfunction, asthma, or covert infection. Toxocariasis is underdiagnosed and understudied, and more research is needed to understand its clinical spectrum and potential links to neurocognitive deficits and blindness in children. Preventive measures to reduce environmental contamination include improved fencing of play areas, deworming of domestic pets, better control of stray cats and dogs, picking up pet feces, avoiding consumption of contaminated food, restriction of children with pica from play areas, and frequent handwashing.
 This study investigates the medical significance of Tityus trivittatus populations from Paraguay and Argentina, focusing on their venom composition, antigenicity, and enzymatic activity. The results indicate that the Paraguayan population produces a potently toxic venom with an LD50 around 1.19 mg/kg, which is comparable to other Tityus species associated with lethal envenomations. Venom neutralization tests using Brazilian and Argentinean anti-Tityus antivenoms showed partial neutralization by the Argentinean antivenom, suggesting antigenic differences between the populations. SDS-PAGE and MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry revealed variations in venom proteins and unique peptides between the populations. A phylogenetic analysis using mitochondrial DNA COI data revealed a significant genetic divergence between the Paraguayan and Argentinean populations, suggesting they may represent distinct cryptic species. Overall, this study highlights the need for further research on the venom and taxonomic diversity of Tityus in southern South America.
 Bat-pollinated flowers have specialized echoic parts to attract pollinators in the absence of light. These parts act as acoustic retroreflectors, making the flowers acoustically conspicuous to bats. Bat-pollinated flowers from the Neotropics and one Southeast Asian species have been identified with acoustic adaptations. However, it is unclear if other bat-pollinated plant species also show such adaptations, or how their acoustic traits compare to other pollination syndromes.To investigate acoustic traits of bat-pollinated flowers, a dataset of 32,320 flower echoes was recorded from 168 individual flowers belonging to 12 different species, six of which were bat-pollinated and six were insect or hummingbird-pollinated. The spectral target strength of the flowers was analyzed, and a convolutional neural network (CNN) was trained on the spectrograms of the flower echoes. Results showed that bat-pollinated flowers have a significantly higher echo target strength, independent of their size, and differ in their morphology, specifically in the lower variance of their morphological features. The CNN achieved good classification accuracy with only one echo/spectrogram to classify the 12 different plant species, with bat-pollinated flowers being easier to classify due to their lower morphological variance.Bats use echolocation to navigate and find food, and nectar-feeding bats rely on echo information to locate flowers. Echo-acoustic information is particularly important for bat-pollinated flowers as they often have distinctive echoes that facilitate detection. However, it is unclear why not all bat-pollinated flowers have developed floral acoustic adaptations, or how their echo features compare to echo features of flowers belonging to other pollination syndromes.In this study, 168 flowers from six families and twelve species were collected and measured. For each family, a bat-pollinated and an insect or bird-pollinated species were chosen, and flowers were collected from multiple individuals to ensure variability. The flowers were measured using a biomimetic sonar head and a unit where objects could be fixed and rotated to ensonify them from different directions. The impulse responses from the flowers were obtained by deconvolution with the original MLS signal, and the spectral target strength was analyzed for five different frequency bands.The results showed that bat-pollinated flowers have a significantly lower coefficient of variation (cV) for the target strength of their echoes compared to insect- or bird-pollinated flowers. This suggests that a high morphological variance is directly related to higher acoustic variance, and the lower morphological variance of bat-pollinated flowers facilitates echo acoustic detection. The study also showed that the CNN achieved good classification accuracy with a small number of synthetic echoes, and that the architecture of the CNN was inspired by experiments on classification of plant appearance qualities for flower grading.In conclusion, this study provides new insights into the acoustic adaptations of bat-pollinated flowers and their importance for bat navigation and pollination. The results suggest that the lower morphological variance of bat-pollinated flowers is an acoustic adaptation that facilitates echo detection and classification, and that the use of a CNN for analyzing flower echoes is an effective approach for understanding the acoustic properties of different plant species. Further research is needed to fully understand the ecological significance of bat-pollinated flowers and their acoustic adaptations, and to explore the potential applications of echo-acoustic analysis in plant ecology and conservation.
 Schistosomiasis, caused by parasitic worms of the genus Schistosoma, is a significant health issue, particularly in China where Oncomelania hupensis is the intermediate snail host. Traditional methods for identifying snail habitats, such as manual collection, are resource-intensive and challenging in less accessible areas. To improve identification, a modelling strategy using machine-learning was employed in Anhui Province, a typical endemic area for schistosomiasis in China.Thirteen thousand snail distribution data points were collected from two types of habitats: lake/marshlands and hilly areas. Thirty-six environmental variables were included in the study, with most obtained from satellite imagery. Twelve machine-learning models were produced, including presence-only and presence-absence models. The random forest (RF) approach performed best, with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.988 and 0.985 for lake/marshlands and hilly areas, respectively. The most important variables for predicting potential snail habitats were distance to the nearest river for lake/marshlands and mean temperature of the driest quarter and annual precipitation for hilly areas.The predicted high-risk areas for potential snail habitats of the lake/marshland type were mainly along the Yangtze River, while those of the hilly type were more dispersed and mostly distributed in the areas south of the Yangtze River. The precision maps of potential snail habitats should be valuable for directing local staff to conduct precise snail investigations, increasing the efficiency and accuracy of monitoring snail habitats, particularly when the climate varies from traditional.Machine-learning approaches are generally better than other methods for predicting potential snail habitats, with RF performing best among all the models investigated. The results presented here suggest that the same snail species may produce different outcomes in different living environments, but further research is needed to confirm this finding. Additionally, human factors and related issues, such as economy, population, urbanization, and environment reconstruction, should not be ignored when considering the distribution of O. hupensis. More flexible prediction models based on machine-learning algorithms are needed to meet the increasing need for accurate prediction and to identify potential snail habitats effectively.
 Giardia duodenalis, the causative agent of giardiasis, is a major intestinal parasitic disease in humans worldwide. The treatment of giardiasis relies mainly on metronidazole (MTZ) and albendazole (ABZ), with ABZ having fewer side effects and similar effectiveness to MTZ. ABZ is a broad-spectrum parasiticide that inhibits microtubule function by binding to monomeric and heterodimeric tubulin. In higher eukaryotes, ABZ is transformed into sulfoxide (ABZSO) and sulfone (ABZSOO) through the action of cytochrome P450 monooxygenases (CYPs) and flavin-containing monooxygenase (FMO). However, Giardia lacks both FMO and CYP, yet it carries out ABZ biotransformation into ABZSO and ABZSOO.The molecular mechanisms underlying ABZ resistance in Giardia are not fully understood. Previous studies have shown that ABZ resistance in helminths is associated with single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the β-tubulin gene, which change the protein structure and alter its binding to ABZ. In contrast, recent studies have identified a different mutation (E198K) in β-tubulin in ABZ-resistant clones of Giardia trophozoites, suggesting that ABZ resistance in Giardia may have different mechanisms related to the pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics of the compound.In this context, a study aimed to identify the enzyme responsible for ABZ metabolism and its role in ABZ resistance in Giardia trophozoites. The study hypothesized that flavohemoglobin (gFlHb) promotes the conversion of ABZ to ABZSO, which is likely linked to an antioxidant, pharmacokinetic mechanism of resistance to ABZ in G. duodenalis.The study first determined that the iron-containing cofactor heme induces higher mRNA expression levels of flavohemoglobin (gFlHb) in Giardia trophozoites. Molecular docking analyses predicted favorable interactions of gFlHb with ABZ, ABZSO, and ABZSOO. Spectral analyses of recombinant gFlHb in the presence of ABZ, ABZSO, and ABZSOO showed high affinities for each of these compounds with Kd values of 22.7, 19.1, and 23.8 nM, respectively. ABZ and ABZSO enhanced gFlHb NADH oxidase activity, while LC-MS/MS analyses of the reaction products showed that gFlHb slowly oxygenates ABZ into ABZSO at a much lower rate. Furthermore, ABZ is indirectly oxidized to ABZSO by superoxide generated from the NADH oxidase activity of gFlHb.Interestingly, gFlHb mRNA expression is lower in albendazole-resistant clones compared to those that are sensitive to this drug. Moreover, all albendazole-resistant clones transfected to overexpress gFlHb displayed higher susceptibility to the drug than the parent clones. These findings indicate a role for gFlHb in ABZ conversion to its sulfoxide and that gFlHb down-regulation acts as a passive pharmacokinetic mechanism of resistance in this parasite.
 This study aimed to understand the biochemical basis of a paradoxical yeast growth phenotype, where met17Δ cells, which are auxotrophic for organosulfur compounds, can overcome this defect when inoculated at high cell density. The researchers discovered a previously overlooked sulfur fixation route, involving a protein named Hsu1p that allows cells to reincorporate sulfide ions that accumulate to growth-relevant concentrations in high-density cultures. Hsu1p substitutes for Met17p, catalyzing the incorporation of inorganic sulfide ions with O-acetylhomoserine (OAHS) to form homocysteine, thereby replenishing the central organosulfur pool and rescuing the met17Δ growth defect in a cell-cell cooperative manner. The data also suggest that the temperature dependency of the rescue may be due to the phase equilibrium towards formation of gaseous H2S, which is readily lost from the system at higher temperatures. The study also suggests that gaseous H2S could function as a chemical messenger or quorum sensing mechanism among cells in the culture. The findings were further supported by transcriptomic data showing that Hsu1p is induced during sulfur limitation and that the presence of Hsu1p and Met17p can confer a growth advantage under these conditions. However, how the cell regulates the activity of both homocysteine synthases to maintain growth without depleting their shared substrate pools remains to be studied.
 Juvenile hormone (JH) plays a crucial role in insect vitellogenesis and egg production by stimulating the opening of the paracellular route for vitellogenin transport across the follicular epithelium barrier. During vitellogenesis, JH triggers Zonula adherens (ZA) disassembly at tricellular contacts, leading to patency dilatation. This process is essential for hemolymph yolk protein precursors to reach the oocyte membrane for subsequent VgR-mediated endocytosis.In the migratory locust Locusta migratoria, JH-induced patency occurs at the onset of vitellogenesis and correlates with increased JH titers. JH promotes aPKC and Par3 phosphorylation, which in turn mediates ZA disassembly at tricellular vertices for patency opening. The GPCR-Cdc42-Par6-aPKC signaling cascade is involved in JH-stimulated phosphorylation of aPKC and Par3, as well as ZA remodeling and patency enlargement.Using L. migratoria as a model system, researchers have reported that JH triggers Par3 phosphorylation via a signaling cascade including GPCR, Cdc42, Par6, and aPKC. Phosphorylated Par3 disassociates from β-Catenin (β-Cat), causing ZA disassembly at tricellular contacts and patency dilatation. While β-Cat is distributed at bicellular junctions, p-Par3 localizes at tricellular patency but not bicellular junctions.JH treatment leads to diminished β-Cat distribution at bicellular junctions along with enlarged opening of patency, while pretreatment of ACPD results in extended distribution of β-Cat at bicellular junctions and shrunk patency. These findings suggest that JH triggers Par3 phosphorylation via aPKC for ZA disassembly and patency induction.In summary, JH regulates ZA remodeling in the follicular epithelium for patency opening by activating the GPCR-Cdc42-Par6-aPKC signaling cascade, which in turn induces ZA disassembly at tricellular vertices for patency opening. This process is essential for hemolymph yolk protein precursors to reach the oocyte membrane for subsequent VgR-mediated endocytosis and egg production.
 Alcoholic-related liver disease (ALD) is a major cause of liver-related deaths, accounting for over 500,000 deaths annually worldwide. ALD includes conditions such as alcoholic liver fibrosis (ALF) and alcoholic liver cirrhosis (ALC), which can be reversible or irreversible, respectively. Unfortunately, most ALD patients are only diagnosed when complications from ALC occur. In this study, researchers used data from the Danish National Patient Registry to identify patients likely to develop ALF or ALC based on their past medical histories.The registry data was preprocessed to include only ICD-10 codes relevant for ALD and to remove irrelevant diagnoses. Three groups of ALD patients were identified: those with ALC only, those with ALF but not ALC, and those with ALF at least 6 months before ALC. The researchers then extracted 2-year upstream and downstream time windows of the first assignment date of ALC or ALF diagnosis for each group.Using machine learning algorithms, the researchers trained models on the ALC patients and achieved good performance on an independent test set. However, when testing the same models on the small number of patients diagnosed only with ALF, the performance dropped significantly. The study identified six groups of statistically significant upstream diagnoses related to liver dysfunction, alcohol overuse, malnutrition, trauma and injuries, upper intestinal mucosal, and other diagnoses. Downstream diagnoses of ALC included other sepsis and more diagnoses related to liver complication. The study was approved by the Danish Data Protection Agency and the Danish Health Authority.
 In this study, researchers identified miR-87 as a critical regulator of dendrite regeneration in Drosophila using a non-biased miRNA screen. miR-87 KO C4da neurons fail to regenerate dendritic arbors, resulting in incomplete coverage of the adult epidermis. This defect can be ameliorated by expressing miR-87 in KO C4da neurons, indicating that miR-87 functions in a cell-autonomous manner to regulate dendrite regeneration. miR-87 is required for pruned dendrites to reinitiate the developmental program for dendrite outgrowth, as miR-87 mutant C4da neurons are defective in the initial elongation of dendritic branches. The researchers propose that upregulation of miR-87 is a critical determinant for dendrite regrowth, as forced expression of miR-87 in C4da neurons in the early larval stages causes precocious initiation of dendrite regeneration. miR-87 promotes dendrite regeneration by suppressing target gene expression in C4da neurons, with Ttk69 being a key functional target for miR-87 in dendrite regeneration. Overexpression of ttk69 in C4da neurons leads to dendrite regeneration defects, and both heterozygosity for ttk69 and RNAi knockdown of ttk69 significantly rescue the dendrite regeneration defects in miR-87 KO C4da neurons. miR-87 is required for dendrite regeneration after acute injury as well as during developmental remodeling. The findings suggest that the miR-87-mediated Ttk69 downregulation might be a core mechanism to reactivate dendrite regrowth in both developmental and injury-induced regeneration in C4da neurons. The observation that miR-87 activity is induced by dendrite damage raises significant questions about the control of miR-87 activity in sensory neurons and the mechanisms involved in damage sensing and signal transduction. The single-cell resolution provided by the miR-87 sensor should allow for systematic characterization of these mechanisms. The findings suggest that modulating miRNA activity in neurons might be a potential therapeutic strategy for promoting dendrite regeneration and functional repair after nervous system damage.
 This study investigates the functional role of CD16 on Vδ2 T cells in the immune response to malaria. Vδ2 T cells are innate-like effectors that can be rapidly activated during primary infection through their unique recognition of phosphoantigens produced by Plasmodium falciparum using the conserved transmembrane presenting molecules Butyrophilin 3A1 (BTN3A1) and Butyrophilin 2A1. However, chronic malaria exposure is associated with a decline in both the frequency and malaria-responsiveness of Vδ2 T cells, and the acquisition of an NK-like phenotype with CD16 expression. The study demonstrates that CD16+ Vδ2 T cells possess more cytolytic potential than their CD16- counterparts and bear many hallmarks of mature NK cells, including KIR expression. Furthermore, Vδ2 T cells from heavily malaria-exposed individuals are able to respond to opsonized P. falciparum-infected red blood cells through CD16, representing a second, distinct pathway by which Vδ2 T cells may contribute to anti-parasite effector functions. This response was independent of TCR engagement. Overall, these results expand the role for opsonizing antibodies in antimalarial immunity and highlight the importance of cooperation between the cellular and humoral arms of the immune system.
 DEER-PREdict is a software program designed to predict Double Electron-Electron Resonance (DEER) distance distributions and Paramagnetic Relaxation Enhancement (PRE) rates from ensembles of protein conformations. It uses an established rotamer library approach to describe paramagnetic probes and operates efficiently on large conformational ensembles, such as those generated by molecular dynamics simulation. The software has been tested against experimentally characterized protein systems, including HIV-1 protease, T4 Lysozyme, and Acyl-CoA-binding protein, and is open source (GPLv3) and available on GitHub and as a Python PyPI package.The software extends the Rotamer Library Approach (RLA) for DEER data from a protein ensemble and calculates PRE rates and intensity ratios using the same approach. It is implemented using the MDAnalysis package and is available on GitHub, PyPI, and Zenodo. The software can be extended to encompass non-protein biomolecules and additional rotamer libraries of paramagnetic groups, and can also be augmented with a module to predict Förster resonance energy transfer data.DEER and PRE measurements require an accurate treatment of the structure and conformational heterogeneity of the spin labels. DEER-PREdict achieves this using the RLA and, in the case of the PRE, a model-free approach to describe the dynamics. The software enables the prediction for multiple site-directed spin labeling (SDSL) experiments from a single simulation of the wild-type sequence, providing a significant advantage over simulations of explicitly spin-labeled mutants.
 This study evaluated the performance of a Rapid LAMP based Diagnostic Test (RLDT) for detection of Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) in stool samples from children under 5 in Zambia. The study included 324 participants, with an overall ETEC prevalence of about 19% using both RLDT and quantitative PCR (qPCR). The highest prevalence was observed in children between 12-59 months of age. The RLDT was found to be sufficiently sensitive and specific, with sensitivities and specificities for LT, STh, and STp toxin genes being 90.7%, 85.2%, and 100%, respectively, and specificities being 97.5%, 99.3%, and 99.7%, respectively. The results suggest that RLDT is an attractive tool for point-of-care testing in resource-limited settings due to its simplicity and rapidity. The study also described the prevalence and seasonality of ETEC infections in Zambia, with a seasonal trend of high positivity rates during the warm, rainy season. The RLDT performed comparably to qPCR, and the study justifies a broader application of the RLDT as a simple and rapid diagnostic test for ETEC in endemic countries. Limitations of the study include the cross-sectional design, the use of different sample preparation methods for RLDT and qPCR, and the lack of incidence data.
 Longitudinal intervention studies with repeated measurements over time are an essential type of experimental design in biomedical research, particularly in the context of "omics" sciences where multivariate outcome data are generated. Analyzing such data requires considering both the longitudinal intervention structure and multivariate nature. The ASCA+ framework, which combines general linear models with principal component analysis, has been used for separating and visualizing multivariate effects in longitudinal studies. However, it has limitations in handling more complex designs, such as unbalanced designs, randomized interventions, and substantial missing data.To address these limitations, a new methodology called repeated measures ASCA+ (RM-ASCA+) has been developed. RM-ASCA+ uses repeated measures linear mixed models in conjunction with ASCA+ to analyze longitudinal multivariate data with unbalanced designs and missing outcome data. This approach facilitates easier interpretation of data from longitudinal clinical trials with multivariate outcomes.The first step in RM-ASCA+ is to define an appropriate linear model for estimating the effects. Three commonly used types of longitudinal linear models, including repeated measures models, longitudinal analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), and analysis of changes, were discussed. Repeated measures models were found to be the most suitable for analyzing such studies using ASCA+ or LiMM-PCA due to their ability to accommodate both randomized and non-randomized study designs and make full use of all available data.Two publicly available metabolomics datasets were used to demonstrate the application of RM-ASCA+. In the first dataset, the impact of neoadjuvant bevacizumab on tumor metabolism was assessed in a randomized controlled trial. RM-ASCA+ revealed that while the groups showed directionally similar metabolic trajectories over time, the slope was more steep for the treatment group, suggesting that the addition of bevacizumab may have augmented the chemotherapy response. In the second dataset, metabolic changes in serum after bariatric surgery were analyzed. RM-ASCA+ identified two distinct temporal trends, which were visualized as separate components. The first component showed a large increase in score value from baseline to the first follow-up and remained largely unaltered over time. This component described the decreased levels of BCAAs, AAAs, lipoprotein signal, and methanol and isopropylalcohol, and increased levels of methylsulfonylmethane, glycine, and ketone bodies. The second component was characterized primarily by temporarily increased levels of ketone bodies and citrate, which suggested changes in fat catabolism.In conclusion, RM-ASCA+ is a powerful methodology for analyzing longitudinal multivariate data, particularly in the context of clinical trials. It yields interpretable and efficient representations of findings while also revealing trends not previously apparent. RM-ASCA+ provides a highly flexible methodology that allows different coding systems and inclusion of covariates, making it suitable for various study designs.
 This study explores the time evolution of disease states in a chemical reaction network as a microscopic model for disease development and diagnosis. The system is represented by a set of interacting species and reactions, with the number of molecules serving as microscopic variables, or signs. Disease states are defined as macroscopic, emergent behaviors displayed by the sign variables, resulting from deviations in reaction rates from the healthy network.The model uses a reverse simulated annealing algorithm to introduce defects, or mutations, in the reaction network and study their impact on disease development and diagnosis. The objective function, initially set to maximize mutual information between signal and response variables, is decreased on average by the reverse annealing algorithm, potentially inducing a phase transition from the healthy state to a disease state.The study aims to provide a microscopic model for time-dependent signs and diseases, allowing for diagnosis based on the history or dynamics of observed signs and more explicit modeling of disease-disease interactions. The model is structured as follows:1. Model and Definitions: The model is defined, and the main equations are presented.2. Modeling Disease Evolution: The stochastic model of disease evolution is presented, along with numerical simulation results for a small reaction network.3. Concluding Remarks: The paper concludes with a discussion of the findings and their implications.The model assumes a fixed number of species and reactions, with the healthy state defined as the state of maximum mutual information between signal and response variables. The time evolution of a defect pattern is modeled through the introduction of mutations and acceptance probabilities, with the mutation and acceptance probabilities controlled by the parameters αr (t|D) and β (t|D), respectively. Interactions between evolving defects may change the rate of mutations and acceptance probabilities.The study's objectives include providing a microscopic model for generating synthetic data for probabilistic models of signs and diseases and presenting a dynamical model of disease evolution that can be used for diagnostic problems based on the dynamics or history of observed signs. The model is a starting point for capturing essential ingredients of disease progression and the clinical diagnostic problem.
 This study aimed to understand the relationship between transmission of SARS-CoV-2 and the amount of virus present in the environment using a mathematical model. The model was developed to determine the relationship between viral kinetics in the upper respiratory tract (URT) and aerosols, and new transmissions in golden hamsters challenged with SARS-CoV-2. The study found that infectious virus shedding early in infection correlates with transmission events, shedding of infectious virus diminishes late in the infection, and high viral RNA levels late in the infection are a poor indicator of transmission. The viral infectiousness increases in a density-dependent manner with viral RNA, and their relative ratio is time-dependent. These findings can be useful for designing interventions. The model was validated against two URT and one aerosol inoculation studies in golden hamsters and used to investigate the link between the infectious virus shed in the environment and the probability of a nearby host getting infected.
 This study addresses the problem of estimating the overlap between two communities, sets, or repertoires when only partial samples are available. Traditional methods for quantifying overlap, such as the Jaccard index and Sorenson-Dice coefficient, become estimation problems when community sizes are unknown. Previous efforts to address this issue have assumed knowledge of total community sizes and used Bayesian methods to produce unbiased estimates with quantified uncertainty. However, this study shows that estimating community sizes alongside overlap produces systematically better estimates.The method uses a hierarchical Bayesian approach, modeling the stochastic process that generates observed presence-absence data from two communities with unknown sizes and overlap. The joint posterior distribution of the unknown parameters is then used to produce unbiased a posteriori point estimates of the repertoire sizes and overlap, as well as to quantify uncertainty via credible intervals.The authors demonstrate the accuracy and uncertainty quantification of their method through numerical experiments using synthetic data. They also discuss the potential application of their approach to various fields, including malaria research, where understanding the overlap between parasite repertoires is crucial for understanding disease transmission and evolution.The study also highlights the importance of recording and reporting not only presence-absence but also abundance data, as the inclusion of total sampling effort can improve inferences and enable sample size calculations. However, the approach requires the specification of a prior distribution for the total community sizes, which may require users to make explicit their prior beliefs about community size.Limitations of the approach include assumptions about the sampling process, such as independent and uniform sampling from a population with identically represented unique genes, species, or objects. Future work could explore extensions to non-uniform sampling regimes or the analysis of communities with multiple parasite genomes within a single host.
 This systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to summarize the evidence on the diagnostic validity of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and Rapid Diagnostic Tests (RDT) for chronic Chagas Disease (CD). A search was conducted on PubMed, Web of Science, Scopus, and LILACS databases between 2010 and 2020. The QUADAS-2 tool was used to assess the risk of bias and applicability of the studies, and the bivariate random effects model was employed to estimate overall sensitivity and specificity.Forty-three studies were included, with 27 assessing ELISA tests, 14 assessing RDTs, and 2 evaluating both. Most studies were clinical-comparative or case-control design, and high risk of bias was detected for patient screening and reference standard. The ELISA tests had a sensitivity of 99% (95% CI: 98-99) and specificity of 98% (95% CI: 97-99), while RDTs had sensitivity of 95% (95% CI: 94-97) and specificity of 97% (95% CI: 96-98). Deeks' test showed asymmetry on ELISA assays.Limitations included difficulty in extracting data due to missing information and the comparative clinical-type design of some studies. Despite these limitations, the analysis suggests that ELISA and RDT tests have high validity for diagnosing chronic CD. Future studies should focus on the variables influencing RDT validity and assess their usefulness in epidemiological contexts and diagnostic algorithms.
 This study presents a new computational model for dopamine (DA) transmission that considers the release, diffusion, and uptake of DA, with a focus on both synaptic and volume transmission. The model is unique as it is the only one to date that considers multiple release sites for DA. The importance of synaptic transmission has been debated, and the model simulates DA concentration in and near the synaptic cleft. After vesicle release, most DA molecules leave the synaptic cleft within less than a millisecond due to fast diffusion. Peri-synaptic DATs are saturated at early high concentrations, leading to discussions about volume transmission versus synaptic transmission. The model suggests that strongly pronounced DAT activity at the presynaptic terminal can not prevent DA from escaping the synaptic cleft, and diffusion rather than uptake is the dominating process directly after DA release. However, uptake is also critical for a balanced DA tone and intensely shapes the extra-synaptic DA signal near release sites. The simulations show that DA from a terminal, synaptic or non-synaptic, is highly localized to the release site, suggesting autocrine signals are mediated by a cell's own DA. The model can be used to investigate hypotheses concerning a single synapse and also a population of cells, and it may be used to mimic pharmacological manipulations or DA-related disease and disorders. The study also tests a hypothesis postulated by Laruelle that the challenge at D2Rs between endogenous DA and PET tracers is occurring primarily in the synaptic space when DA release is enhanced, contrasting with the extra-synaptic space when uptake is inhibited. The model suggests the possibility for enhanced challenges in synaptic compared to extra-synaptic space following nicotine administration, but this could not completely explain the strong difference in concentration occurring in parallel with no difference in D2R binding. The study emphasizes the importance of using different empirical methods to build simulation tools like the one presented here and encourages the combination of empirical and simulation methods to optimize each other.
 The degeneration of tick salivary glands, which occurs several days post engorgement, is a programmed cell death process mediated by ecdysone. Both autophagy and apoptosis are involved in this process, but their relationship is unclear. During the fast feeding phase, RhATG5, a homolog of the autophagy-related protein ATG5, is cleaved and both calcium concentration and the transcription of Rhcalpains increase in the salivary glands. Recombinant RhATG5 is cleaved by μ-calpain only in the presence of calcium, and the mutant RhATG5191-199Δ is not cleaved. High concentrations of 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E) lead to the cleavage of RhATG5 and the transition from autophagy to apoptosis. Ca2+ concentration and expression of Rhcalpains are also upregulated during this process. RNA interference (RNAi) of RhATG5 in vitro inhibits both autophagy and apoptosis, while RNAi in vivo significantly inhibits the normal feeding process. These results suggest that high concentrations of 20E lead to the cleavage of RhATG5 by increasing the concentration of calcium and stimulating the transition from autophagy to apoptosis.
 Yellow fever (YF) has seen significant changes in incidence and geographic extent over the past 20 years, with large outbreaks occurring in previously unaffected areas of South America, particularly in Brazil's South-East Atlantic forest. The causes of these expansions are not well understood, but habitat fragmentation and land-cover changes have been suggested as potential contributors. In this study, we investigated the role of vegetation, land-cover, climate, and host population in predicting YF transmission.We analyzed YF reports from 2003 to 2016 and identified 397 unique report months across 8 countries. Peru, Colombia, and Brazil accounted for the majority of report months. We used hierarchical negative binomial regression models to create ensemble models predicting interannual and seasonal variation in YF transmission. Our models explained a substantial amount of the observed variation, with R2 values of 0.43 (95% CI 0.41-0.45) for the interannual and 0.66 (95% CI 0.64-0.67) for the seasonal model.Vegetation, specifically the Enhanced Vegetation Index (EVI), was the second most important predictor for both models, positively associated with YF reports. The log of human population was the most important predictor, as larger populations give more opportunities for spillover. Landcover and vegetation heterogeneity were also influential covariates in explaining interannual variation in YF reports. While cropland and savanna cover are negatively associated with YF reports, vegetation heterogeneity is positively associated, possibly acting as a proxy for habitat fragmentation.Our findings may help explain the recent expansions of the YF endemic zone and the highly seasonal nature of YF transmission. However, there is still a significant amount of unexplained variation in YF reports, which may be due to data limitations or the spatial resolution of the study. Future modelling work should consider the role of multi-year variation in covariates and investigate the relationship between climate and environment with YF spillover at the local or individual level.In conclusion, this study provides important insights into the seasonality and interannual transmission of YF across South America from 2003 to 2016. By identifying covariates and their statistical relationship with report months of YF, this work may be used to target surveillance in areas that have a higher risk of YF reporting based on their climate and environment, without currently reported cases. This application could have substantial public health value in a context where the geographic range of YF is changing and vaccine stocks are still limited.
 Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is characterized by intrusive thoughts or irresistible behaviors that interfere with daily life. Pavlovian cues, which can affect instrumental behavior through Pavlovian-instrumental transfer (PIT), have been studied extensively in substance use disorders but less so in OCD. In this study, researchers investigated the effects of Pavlovian cues on instrumental behavior in both clinical OCD patients and healthy controls using a standard PIT task.The study involved 30 OCD patients and 31 healthy controls who completed the PIT task, which included instrumental training, Pavlovian training, and a PIT stage. Modified Rescorla-Wagner models were used to estimate underlying computational mechanisms and quantify individual differences during training and transfer stages.Behavioral and computational results indicated a weaker Pavlovian influence on instrumental behavior in OCD patients than in healthy controls, especially for negative Pavlovian cues. This contrasts with the increased PIT effects reported for substance use disorders. The reduced PIT in OCD may be due to impairments in using contextual information provided by the cues to appropriately adjust behavior, particularly when inhibiting responding when a negative cue is present.These findings provide deeper insight into the deficits in OCD from the perspective of Pavlovian influences on instrumental behavior and may have implications for OCD treatment modalities focused on reducing compulsive behaviors. However, it is important to note that this study did not examine all types of Pavlovian cues that may be relevant in OCD and future research is needed to examine PIT with stimuli tailored to the individual person’s area of compulsion. Additionally, the study did not examine the role of goal-directed learning in OCD, which could also contribute to the reduced PIT effect observed in this population.
 The Apicomplexa phylum, which includes parasites such as coccidians, haemosporidians, piroplasms, and cryptosporidia, is characterized by complex and divergent life cycles occupying various host niches. These parasites exhibit distinct adaptations to nutritional availabilities, either relying on biosynthetic pathways or salvaging metabolites from their host. Among these apicomplexans, only the coccidian subgroup, including Toxoplasma gondii and the cyst-forming parasite, can synthesize pantothenate (Pan), the precursor for cofactor coenzyme A (CoA).The Pan and CoA biosynthesis pathways have been extensively studied in T. gondii and Plasmodium falciparum, with recent advances revealing the suitability of these pathways as drug targets. Pan is synthesized from L-valine through a three-step process involving ketopantoate hydroxymethyl transferase (KPHMT), ketopantoate reductase (KPR), and pantoate-β-alanine ligase (PBAL or Pan synthetase). While other apicomplexans lack this pathway, the coccidians encode the enzymes catalyzing the three Pan synthesis reactions in only two genes, with the first two transformations catalyzed by a bifunctional KPHMT-KPR enzyme.Recent studies have shown that KPHMT-KPR and PBAL localize to the mitochondrion and nucleus, respectively, and that branched-chain aminotransferase (BCAT), which generates α-ketoisovalerate from L-valine, also localizes to the mitochondrion. However, whole-genome fitness score studies and pharmacological evidence suggest that Pan synthesis is not occurring in in vitro standard cultured T. gondii tachyzoites and that parasites are dependent on Pan salvage from the host cell.Despite the dispensability and inactivity of the synthesis pathway in tachyzoites, individual deletion of either KPHMT-KPR or PBAL gene in the cyst-forming type II strain of T. gondii resulted in a dramatic reduction in the number of cysts in the mouse brain, indicating the utilization of Pan synthesis in bradyzoites. The retention of the Pan synthesis pathway exclusively in coccidians and the critical role of this pathway for establishment of chronic infection by T. gondii are intriguing.While most bacteria, plants, and fungi can synthesize Pan de novo, animals, including humans, require it from their diet. Pan is synthesized from L-valine through a three-step process involving hydroxymethyl transfer, reduction, and ligations. The enzymes catalyzing these reactions are ketopantoate hydroxymethyl transferase (KPHMT), ketopantoate reductase (KPR), and pantoate-β-alanine ligase (PBAL or Pan synthetase), respectively. While other apicomplexans lack this pathway altogether, the coccidians encode the enzymes catalyzing the three Pan synthesis reactions in only two genes, with the first two transformations catalyzed by a bifunctional KPHMT-KPR enzyme.Recently, a potent class of pantothenamides (PanAms), Pan analogs, which target CoA-utilizing enzymes, has entered antimalarial preclinical development. The potential of PanAms to target multiple downstream pathways makes them a promising compound class as broad antiparasitic drugs against other apicomplexans. In this review, we summarize the recent advances in understanding the Pan and CoA biosynthesis pathways and the suitability of these pathways as drug targets in Apicomplexa, with a particular focus on the cyst-forming coccidian, Toxoplasma gondii, and the haemosporidian, Plasmodium falciparum.The first step in the CoA synthesis pathway is the phosphorylation of Pan to 4′-phosphopantothenate, catalyzed by Pan kinase (PanK). This reaction is followed by the sequential formation of 4′-phosphopantothenoylcysteine, 4′-phosphopantetheine, dephospho-CoA, and
