 The COVID-19 pandemic caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has had significant impacts on global health and economies. Spike protein, a major target for COVID-19 vaccines, is the dominant antigen that induces neutralizing antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. A DNA vaccine containing the spike gene for delivery via electroporation was developed and tested in hamsters. The results showed that both pSARS-S and pSARS2-S immunization induced similar levels of antibodies against S2 of SARS-CoV-2, but only pSARS2-S immunization induced antibodies against the receptor-binding domain of SARS-CoV-2 and high titers of neutralizing antibodies. The immune responses were biased toward Th1, and pSARS2-S immunization in hamsters could induce protective immunity against SARS-CoV-2 challenge in vivo. These findings suggest that DNA vaccination could be a promising approach for protecting against COVID-19. The study was approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) of the NHRI and conducted in a BSL-3 laboratory. The DNA sequences encoding the full-length SARS-Spike and SARS-CoV-2 spike genes were optimized for mouse codon usage and synthesized. Different fragments of S were constructed and amplified individually by PCR and subcloned into the clinically used vector pVAX1. The plasmids were transformed into DH5α E. coli for plasmid amplification and extracted and purified using an endotoxin-free Qiagen column system. HEK293T cells were transfected with the indicated DNA plasmids using PolyJet reagent, and the proteins were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and Western blotting. BALB/c, C57BL/6 mice, and Syrian hamsters were used for immunization and challenge studies. The data showed that pSARS2-S immunization induced high titers of neutralizing antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 and protected hamsters from body weight loss and viral load reduction after challenge. The study also investigated the immunogenicity of different variants of SARS-CoV-2 and the ability of serum antibodies to interfere with the ACE2-RBD interaction. The results suggested that pSARS2-S immunization could induce competitive antibodies that efficiently block the binding of SARS-CoV-2 RBD to the ACE2 receptor. The study also discussed the advantages and disadvantages of different vaccine platforms and the importance of further studies to investigate the efficacy of the DNA vaccine delivered using intradermal injection and in aged mice. The study concluded that the COVID-19 DNA vaccine may play a major role in controlling the pandemic in the near future.
 This study explores health beliefs and health seeking behavior towards Morbidity Management and Disability Prevention (MMDP) services for lymphatic filariasis (LF) in Luangwa District, Zambia. LF is a neglected tropical disease causing permanent disability through chronic manifestations of lymphedema, elephantiasis, and hydrocele. While MDA programs have delivered over 8.2 billion treatments to people in endemic areas since 2000, fewer LF patients have accessed MMDP services.The study was conducted through focus group discussions and in-depth interviews with community members, including LF patients, community health workers, and healthcare providers. Participants identified various causes of LF, including contact with animal faeces, use of traditional herbal aphrodisiacs, witchcraft, and sexual contact with menstruating or miscarrying women. LF patients often visited traditional healers before seeking care from health facilities. Hydrocele patients were afraid of hydrocelectomies due to perceived infertility or death. Few community members were aware of home and facility-based care strategies for lymphedema.Barriers to seeking healthcare included long distances to health facilities, lack of awareness of existing MMDP services, perceived costs, gender and social norms, and fear of stigmatization. Health seeking behavior for LF in the district was driven by negative beliefs about the causes of the disease and lack of awareness of available MMDP services and homecare strategies.To improve access to MMDP services, strategies should empower patients and community members with information, promote awareness of existing services, and address cultural beliefs. Health education campaigns should address patients' concerns, create awareness of free-of-charge MMDP services, and strengthen referral systems. MMDP programs should also embrace strategies that motivate and empower LF patients and their families to overcome health systems and cultural barriers to accessing care.
 In this study, researchers identified vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP) as a novel interaction partner of the human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) accessory protein p8. VASP is crucial for the transfer of p8 to other cells and also plays a role in the transfer of the HTLV-1 Gag protein between cells, potentially contributing to HTLV-1 cell-to-cell transmission. The researchers used bioinformatics analysis to predict the interaction between p8 and the EVH1 domain of VASP, which was confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence in different cell types. The VASP:p8 interaction was also shown to be specific, as it was detected in the presence of the detergent N-octyl-β-D-glucoside, which solubilizes membrane proteins. Mutational studies revealed that the EVH1 domain of VASP is necessary but not sufficient for the interaction with p8, and both the EVH1 and EVH2 domains of VASP are required for VASP localization to focal adhesions, which may be a prerequisite for the interaction with p8. The G- and F-actin binding domains located in the EVH2 domain of VASP are also required for the interaction with p8, suggesting that actin may be involved in the VASP:p8 interaction. The researchers also found that repression of VASP leads to a significant reduction of HTLV-1 Gag transfer between cells, suggesting that HTLV-1 cell-to-cell transmission depends on VASP. However, the mechanism of VASP-dependent Gag transfer remains to be elucidated. Overall, this study sheds light on the molecular mechanisms of p8 transport between cells and uncovers VASP as a potential target to counteract HTLV-1 cell-to-cell transmission.
 This study explores the emergence of tinnitus-like "hallucinations" in a recurrent neural network trained using the entropy maximization (EM) approach. For typical inputs, the network developed connectivity patterns and exhibited output responses similar to biological findings regarding the auditory system, specifically the dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN). However, sensory deprivation elicited tinnitus-like hallucinations in the network, which resembled the characteristics of common types of tinnitus. The results suggest that the emergence of tinnitus depends on the interplay between the computational objective and the homeostatic regularization, in contrast to models driven by a single phenomenological homeostatic mechanism. The study also discusses the implications of these findings for understanding the neural mechanisms underlying other types of phantom sensations.The researchers trained a recurrent neural network using the EM approach to represent simulated auditory stimuli. For typical inputs, the network developed connectivity patterns and exhibited output responses similar to biological findings regarding the auditory system and the DCN. However, when the network was subjected to sensory deprivation by attenuating a part of the frequency domain, it exhibited tinnitus-like hallucinations. The results suggest that the emergence of tinnitus depends on the interplay between the computational objective and the homeostatic regularization, rather than a single phenomenological homeostatic mechanism.The study also discusses the implications of these findings for understanding the neural mechanisms underlying other types of phantom sensations. The researchers note that the findings are independent of the input modality and can be used to explain how other kinds of phantom sensations are caused by neural plasticity and involve the specific region in the sensory input space which was deprived of input. The DCN is known to receive various non-auditory inputs, including somatosensory projections, which are known to be upregulated in tinnitus and modulate the perceived tinnitus. The study suggests that the proposed computational framework can naturally account for the effect of non-auditory projections on the perceived tinnitus.The researchers also note that the emergence of tinnitus is likely to rely on changes in recurrent circuitry, although it may also involve additional changes in feed-forward interactions. They suggest that future work can generalize the current model to also include different non-auditory inputs and model their effect on the perceived tinnitus.In summary, this study demonstrates how the EM approach can be used as a model of early auditory processing and the phenomenon of tinnitus. The findings suggest that the emergence of tinnitus depends on the interplay between the computational objective and the homeostatic regularization, rather than a single phenomenological homeostatic mechanism. The study also discusses the implications of these findings for understanding the neural mechanisms underlying other types of phantom sensations and the role of non-auditory inputs in the perception of tinnitus.
 Porcine hemagglutinating encephalomyelitis virus (PHEV) is a neurotropic coronavirus belonging to the genus Betacoronavirus that primarily infects pigs through respiratory droplets and close contact, leading to neurological manifestations. The neuroinvasion route of PHEV is poorly understood, but it is known to target neurons in the central nervous system (CNS) and cause significant smell and taste dysfunction. In this study, BALB/c mice were found to be susceptible to intranasal PHEV infection, and the behavioral and histopathological examinations revealed that PHEV attacks neurons in the CNS and causes olfactory and gustatory dysfunction. The virus was found to invade the CNS via the olfactory nerve and trigeminal nerve located in the nasal cavity, and olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) were susceptible to viral infection. Immunofluorescence staining and ultrastructural observations suggested that axonal transport may engage in rapid viral transmission in the CNS. Moreover, viral replication in the olfactory system and CNS is associated with inflammatory and immune responses, tissue disorganization, and dysfunction. Overall, PHEV may serve as a potential prototype for elucidating the pathogenesis of coronavirus-associated neurological complications and olfactory and taste disorders.
 The regulation of glycometabolism homeostasis is crucial for animal and human health and development. The molecular mechanisms by which organisms regulate glucose metabolism homeostasis from a feeding state to a non-feeding state are not fully understood. Using the holometabolous lepidopteran insect Helicoverpa armigera as a model, researchers revealed that the steroid hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E) upregulated the expression of transcription factor Krüppel-like factor (Klf15) to promote macroautophagy/autophagy, apoptosis, and gluconeogenesis during metamorphosis. 20E, via its nuclear receptor EcR, upregulated Klf15 transcription in the fat body during metamorphosis. Knockdown of Klf15 using RNA interference delayed pupation and repressed autophagy and apoptosis of larval fat body during metamorphosis. KLF15 promoted autophagic flux and transited to apoptosis. KLF15 bound to the KLF binding site (KLF bs) in the promoter of Atg8 to upregulate Atg8 expression. Knockdown Atg8 reduced free fatty acids (FFAs), glycerol, free amino acids (FAAs), and glucose levels. However, knockdown of Klf15 accumulated FFAs, glycerol, and FAAs.Glycolysis was switched to gluconeogenesis, trehalose and glycogen synthesis were changed to degradation during metamorphosis, which were accompanied by the variation of the related genes' expression. KLF15 upregulated phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (Pepck) expression by binding to KLF bs in the Pepck promoter for gluconeogenesis, which utilized FFAs, glycerol, and FAAs directly or indirectly to increase glucose in the hemolymph.In summary, 20E, via KLF15, integrated autophagy and gluconeogenesis by promoting autophagy-related and gluconeogenesis-related genes' expression. Autophagy and apoptosis supplied substrates for gluconeogenesis, and glycolysis was changed to gluconeogenesis from feeding to non-feeding during metamorphosis. The elevation of hemolymph glucose levels was the result of blocking of glycolysis, enhancing of degradation of glycogen and trehalose, and increased gluconeogenesis.
 The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, caused by the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, has prompted the scientific community to identify potential vaccine targets. The primary immunological target is the SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) protein, which mediates viral entry into host cells. To identify possible antibody binding sites, a 10 μs molecular dynamics (MD) simulation was conducted on a full-length atomistic model of four S trimers in the prefusion conformation. The model included the transmembrane domain (TMD) embedded in a complex lipid bilayer, along with realistic post-translational modification patterns, such as glycosylation of the ectodomain and palmitoylation of the TMD. The simulations revealed that the glycan shield, while extensive, does not hinder antibody accessibility as much as expected due to its flexibility. The study identified epitope candidates on the S protein by combining information on steric accessibility, structural flexibility, sequence conservation, and epitope characteristics. Nine distinct epitope sites were predicted, and five of these overlapped with experimentally characterized epitopes. The findings suggest that a fragment-based epitope presentation approach could be used to engineer stable immunogenic constructs that robustly elicit the production of antibodies. The methodology used in this study is general and can be extended to predict epitopes for other viral proteins.
 This study investigated the effects of type I interferon (IFN) treatment on SARS-CoV-2 infection in Syrian hamsters. The researchers observed that early administration of IFN, either one day before or one day after infection, protected against weight loss and decreased viral lung titers. However, IFN treatment initiated at the onset of symptoms three days post-infection had no impact on the clinical course of SARS-CoV-2 infection. The study provides evidence that early type I IFN treatment is beneficial, while late interventions are ineffective. The researchers suggest that the timing of type I IFN treatment may be critical for its efficacy against SARS-CoV-2, and that further studies are needed to understand the mechanisms underlying this observation. The study was conducted in accordance with European Parliament and council regulations on animal use in scientific research.
 This study aimed to evaluate the use of Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption/Ionization Time-of-Flight Mass Spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) for the identification of freshwater snail species involved in schistosomiasis transmission, using protein extracts from both frozen and ethanol-stored snails. The study used a total of 619 snail specimens, including 530 field-collected and 89 laboratory-reared specimens. The results showed that MALDI-TOF MS spectra obtained from the snail foot, head, and foot-head protein extracts were adequate to accurately identify freshwater snails. The optimized protocol was validated using only the foot, as it is the primary site for Schistosoma infection and a good protein source. The findings showed that MALDI-TOF MS spectra obtained from the snail foot, head, and foot-head protein extracts were adequate to accurately identify freshwater snails. The protocol validation was confirmed using only the foot. The study also showed that the use of ethanol for snail preservation did not affect the quality of the MS spectra, as long as the ethanol was properly removed before analysis. The database created using MALDI-Biotyper 3.0 and upgraded with MS spectra of high-quality, unambiguously identified specimens, showed 100% correct identification of six species in a blind test. However, there were not enough C. bulimoides specimens available for a blind test, and its identification was only confirmed morphologically. The study concluded that MALDI-TOF MS is a reliable tool for the identification of different frozen snail species and can be used to circumvent molecular limitations such as long sample preparation time, high-cost reagents, and the lack of reference data. The study also demonstrated that MALDI-TOF MS can be used for the identification of snails stored in alcohol, but that requires the creation of a specific database with a large number of specimens preserved in ethanol to circumvent the bias of heterogeneity.
 This study describes the development and optimization of a smartphone microscope system for the detection and quantification of Cryptosporidium and Giardia (oo) cysts in vegetable and water samples. The system uses a ball lens of 1 mm diameter, white LED illumination, and Lugol's iodine staining to provide magnification and contrast capable of distinguishing (oo) cysts of Cryptosporidium and Giardia. The analytical performance of the method was tested through spike recovery experiments, which resulted in comparable recovery percentages to those obtained using commercial brightfield and fluorescence microscope methods. The smartphone microscope system was then used to screen 7 types of vegetable and 18 water samples, revealing that 42% of vegetable and 33% of water samples were contaminated with Cryptosporidium oocysts, and 31% of vegetable and 30% of water samples were contaminated with Giardia cysts. The new method can be a low-cost and easy-to-implement alternative for simultaneous detection of (oo) cysts in vegetable and water samples in resource-limited settings. The approximate cost of the microscope (excluding the cost of the smartphone) is around $15. The future work involves the development of an automated smartphone program that could take images, process the images to identify and count the (oo) cysts, and provide reports to the user. This automated system may minimize errors and shorten analysis time. Overall, the smartphone microscope system offers a promising solution for rapid and affordable detection and quantification of (oo) cysts in various samples.
 Echinococcosis is a zoonotic parasitic disease caused by larval stages of cestodes belonging to the genus Echinococcus, with two forms, cystic echinococcosis (CE) and alveolar echinococcosis (AE), affecting humans in China. The disease is a major public health burden in western China, particularly in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, where both CE and AE are prevalent. In 2018, a total of 47,278 cases of human echinococcosis were recorded in 370 endemic counties, with a prevalence rate of 10.57 per 10,000 people. Spatial autocorrelation and spatial scan statistics were used to analyze the distribution and prevalence of human echinococcosis in each county.The results showed that the spatial distribution of human echinococcosis in China displays a non-random spatial clustering pattern, with "hot spots" concentrated in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, mainly in northern Tibet, southwestern Qinghai, and Ganzi, and Sichuan. The transmission of E. granulosus senso lato occurs between dogs and livestock, while E. multilocularis transmission occurs between stray dogs or foxes as definitive hosts and rodents as intermediate hosts. Humans are aberrant intermediate hosts and are infected by ingesting E. multilocularis eggs.The study also identified several risk factors for human CE and AE in Tibetan communities, including the involvement of wildlife in E. multilocularis transmission cycle, unrestricted disposal of animal viscera, and the presence of large numbers of stray dogs. Prevention and control measures, such as strengthening the control of stray dogs in epidemic areas of AE, carrying out control measures of intermediate host animal density, monitoring the infection status, health education, and people awareness, should be considered.The findings of this study provide a basis for preventive actions and management policy to reduce the impact of human echinococcosis and improve its control in China. The study identified counties at high-risk of human echinococcosis and showed the presence of "hot spots" which need to be rationally addressed as a priority. Collectively, this study provides a basis for preventive actions and management policy to reduce the impact of human echinococcosis and improve its control in China.
 This paper investigates the effectiveness of different immunization strategies for controlling outbreaks in networks with missing data. The study compares degree, betweenness, and stochastic immunization strategies, specifically acquaintance immunization, under various levels of missing data. The results suggest that targeted immunization strategies, such as degree and betweenness, outperform random immunization even at high levels of missing data. However, stochastic strategies, like acquaintance immunization, become more effective than global strategies as missing data increases. The study also introduces a variant of acquaintance immunization that uses ongoing survey-intervention processes to improve data recovery and performance with increasing levels of missing data. The findings support the effectiveness of targeted immunization strategies and highlight the importance of considering the impact of missing data on network analysis and intervention strategies.
 Extracellular recording is a technique used to study brain physiology and pathology by measuring ionic currents and potential gradients in the extracellular space. The number of recording channels and their density have led to questions about the improvement brought by additional channels and optimal usage. This study demonstrates that for any given distribution of electrodes, there is exactly what information about current sources in the brain can be recovered and what information is strictly unobservable.The authors show that the current source density (CSD) can be recovered using the kernel Current Source Density (kCSD) method, which separates the estimation space from the experimental setup. They illustrate this using simplified examples and evoked potentials from the barrel cortex obtained with a Neuropixels probe and compatible model data. The results show that with careful consideration of the meaning of CSD and derivation of its relations to the potential, one can recover sources not accessible to standard methods.The authors explain that the extracellular potential is a consequence of ion motion driven by ionic currents and capacitive currents. The distribution of current sources is called CSD, and its relation to the potential is given by the Poisson equation. They demonstrate that with a conceptual separation of the estimation space from the experimental setup, one can recover sources not accessible to standard methods.The kCSD method is a two-step procedure that first estimates the potential using kernel interpolation and then moves the obtained solution to the CSD space. The authors introduce a large basis of CSD sources and corresponding basis sources in the potential space and construct their kernels from these basis sources. They show that the CSD and potential are represented as linear combinations of these basis sources.The authors also discuss the limitations of the metaphor brain model and the importance of source placement in the analysis. They illustrate the concepts using simulated and experimental examples of cortical responses to rat vibrissae stimulation and show how the analysis can be applied to data from modern probes such as Neuroseeker or Neuropixels. They conclude that the proposed decomposition is general and can be applied to other inverse problems.The experimental procedures followed the 2010/63/EU directive and were accepted by the 1st Warsaw Local Ethics Committee. An electrophysiological experiment was performed on an adult male Wistar rat using a Neuropixels probe inserted into the brain to study the somatosensory thalamus. The data was acquired from all 384 electrodes in bank 0, arranged on a four-column checkerboard configuration, and analyzed using offline filtering and downsampling.
 This study aimed to investigate the effects of co-infection on parasite density and gametocyte carriage for all possible combinations of the four major human Plasmodium species using molecular diagnostics. The study was conducted in Papua New Guinea, where all four Plasmodium species co-exist, and used a unique dataset of nucleic acid samples collected from the Albinama cohort study.The study found that the observed frequency of Pf-Pv co-infection for asexual parasites (14.7%) was higher than expected (11.3%), and the observed frequency of co-infection with Pf and Pv gametocytes (4.6%) was also higher than expected (3.7%). The excess risk of co-infection was 1.38 (95% CI: 1.09, 1.67) for all parasites and 1.37 (95% CI: 0.95, 1.79) for gametocytes. The excess co-infection risk was partially attributable to malaria infections clustering in some villages. Pf-Pv-Pm triple infections were four times more frequent than expected by chance alone, which could not be fully explained by infections clustering in highly exposed individuals.The study also found that Pm density increased with any additional co-infection, with a significant 6.57-fold increase in Pm asexual parasite density when co-infected with Pf asexual parasites. In co-infection with Pm, the mean asexual and gametocyte densities of any other co-infecting species were reduced compared to those in single-species infections, although these effects were not statistically significant. These data suggest that Pm thrives on the cost of co-infections and outcompetes these.The study also found that Pm prevalence increased very slowly over time, consistent with a low force of infection combined with a long duration of infection. This is consistent with Pm causing chronic infections that can last for years. The Pm and Po gametocyte detection assays were designed based on the assumption of functional similarity because of sequence similarity to the highly expressed pfs25 orthologue, i.e., pms25 and pos25 show similar high expression to pfs25.The study had some limitations, including the use of blood for RNA extraction on filter paper and later storage in TRIzol for several years, which could have led to RNA degradation and underestimation or undetected gametocyte densities. Another limitation was the narrow age range of study participants, which may not be representative of the total population. The study did not analyze morbidity or account for individual-level heterogeneity in exposure, which could have reduced some of the remaining heterogeneity. The study also did not analyze the sub-species of P. o. curtisi and P. o. wallikeri due to limited sample numbers. The analyses presented did not account for individual-level heterogeneity in exposure, which could have reduced some of the remaining heterogeneity. Overall, the study provides important insights into the complex interactions between Plasmodium species within the human host and highlights the need for further research to fully understand these interactions.
 IUSMMT is a novel statistical approach for examining high-dimensional mediation effects in survival models with multiple exposures and one mediator. It was applied to ten TCGA cancers to identify genes that likely exhibited mediation effects of gene expression on the signaling pathway from DNA methylation CpG sites to the survival risk of cancers. The results showed that only a few of DNA methylation CpG sites showed a total impact on the survival risk of cancers, but DNA methylation CpG sites can influence expression level directly for a wide range of genes, and most of these methylation-regulated genes were shared across distinct cancers. Many genes were related to the survival risk of cancers, but most of them were cancer type-specific, and the majority of the mediations associations were also cancer type-specific. Almost all the associations were full mediations, with only few partial mediations. However, it is important to note that the regulation assumption from DNA methylations to gene expression may not fully hold, and altered DNA methylation may simply represent a passenger event rather than a mediation event. To distinguish passenger methylation events from mediation methylation events, a reverse regression analysis was performed, which found statistically supportive evidence that a small fraction of mediation associations may be passenger methylation events. However, this reverse analysis strategy is an ad-hoc approach which has no clear theoretical basis and only considered the cis influence of gene expression regulation on methylation. IUSMMT may be sub-optimal if the effect sizes of DNA methylation CpG sites located within the gene have the same direction, and it may be desirable to construct a feasible omnibus mediation effect test that can aggregate all these strengths. The power in the first stage where the relationship between a set of DNA methylation CpG sites and gene expression level was examined with the variance-component test with a linear kernel function can be further enhanced by using other more complicated kernels or a composite optimal kernel. IUSMMT is freely available at https://github.com/biostatpzeng/IUSMMT.
 This study investigates the gene regulatory network controlling predatory and non-predatory mouth form development in the nematode Pristionchus pacificus. The researchers found that the network consists of genes of different age classes, and identified mutants in the conserved nuclear hormone receptors nhr-1 and nhr-40 with previously unseen phenotypic effects. Nhr-1 mutants disrupt mouth-form determination and result in animals combining features of both wild-type morphs, while nhr-40 mutants display altered morph ratios but no intermediate morphology. Both NHR-1 and NHR-40 share transcriptional targets, which encode extracellular proteins with no orthologs in Caenorhabditis elegans and result from lineage-specific expansions. The major morphological changes in the pharyngeal gland cell, where these targets are expressed, are linked with the evolution of teeth and predation. This study enhances our understanding of the genetic basis of developmental plasticity and the evolution of novel traits.
 Mitochondria play a crucial role in intracellular calcium (Ca2+) dynamics in cardiac myocytes through calcium exchange, ATP generation, and production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Abnormal mitochondrial depolarization can lead to Ca2+ alternans, a phenomenon linked to cardiac arrhythmias. However, the complex signaling pathways and Ca2+ cycling between mitochondria and the cytosol make it challenging to investigate the underlying mechanisms of Ca2+ alternans under abnormal mitochondrial depolarization.In this study, researchers used a newly developed spatiotemporal ventricular myocyte computer model to investigate the mechanisms of Ca2+ alternans during mitochondrial depolarization. They found that elevated ROS in response to mitochondrial depolarization plays a critical role in promoting Ca2+ alternans. The redox effect of ROS on ryanodine receptors (RyRs) and sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase synergistically promotes alternans. Upregulation of mitochondrial Ca2+ uniporter promotes Ca2+ alternans via Ca2+-dependent mitochondrial permeability transition pore opening.Oxidized Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) activation and ATP do not play significant roles acutely in the genesis of Ca2+ alternans after mitochondrial depolarization but can be significant in the long term, mainly through their effects on sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase activity. In conclusion, mitochondrial depolarization promotes Ca2+ alternans acutely via the redox effect of ROS and chronically by ATP reduction, while suppressing Ca2+ alternans chronically through oxidized signaling, mainly via their effects on SERCA activity.
 This study investigates the spatiotemporal association between urbanization, distribution of water bodies, and the incidence of Hemorrhagic Fever with Renal Syndrome (HFRS) in Xi’an City, China, from 2005 to 2018. The results revealed an overall clustered pattern of HFRS incidence across Xi’an, with most districts having high incidence located in the middle region and significant high-high clusters in the south-central region. The temporal distribution of HFRS incidence showed two peak periods: June–July and November–January, with a continually increasing and then decreasing trend in the number of cases from 2005 to 2010 and 2010 to 2018, respectively.Rapid urbanization significantly affected the HFRS incidence in two different time phases. In the first phase, urbanization increased the rate of HFRS infection, while in the second phase, which began six years after urbanization, the HFRS incidence gradually decreased to approach the average incidence rate of previously urbanized areas. This phenomenon was primarily attributed to the destruction of natural habitats and activity rules of animal reservoirs, leading to increased rodent host populations and densities, particularly in Zhouzhi, Huyi, Lantian, and Yanta districts.The distribution of water bodies was also found to be an important driver of HFRS incidence in Xi’an. Two significant thresholds of 696.15 m and 1575.39 m were observed, where the association of water bodies with the HFRS incidence rate in the surrounding areas peaked, especially at a distance of approximately 600 m away from the water bodies.The study used both traditional statistical and geospatial methods, including global and local autocorrelation, circular buffer analysis, and KDE analysis, to investigate the dynamic patterns, variations, and influential determinants of HFRS incidence. The findings may help in understanding how water-body distribution influences human exposure to rodents or their body fluids/excreta from a spatiotemporal perspective. The methods used in this research may also yield the same findings, suggesting that regions at approximately 600 m from the water bodies may have a high risk of Hantavirus infection and are almost unaffected by the sex or age of patients.The study has some limitations, including the lack of data on the complex mechanism of HFRS transmission, the difficulty of investigating the comprehensive relationships between urbanization, distribution of water bodies, rainfall, and vegetation on HFRS incidence from a spatiotemporal perspective, and the difficulty of determining the exact location where patients were infected due to limited information available from the acquired data.Despite these limitations, the study provides a practical example of how to apply geostatistical approaches to quantitatively explore the dynamic patterns, variations, and influential determinants of an epidemic, which not only demonstrates a potential way to address some research gaps in the existing literature but also presents several opportunities to support public health decision-makers in implementing effective strategies for preventing epidemics.
 Helicobacter pylori, a bacterial pathogen that chronically infects approximately half of the world's population, exhibits significant genetic diversity within and between individuals. In a study of a single individual's H. pylori isolates collected over a six-year period, researchers identified 1,767 unique single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and 485 indels across 39 isolates. The average genetic distance between isolates from the same time point was 6.75 x 10-5, while the average genetic distance between isolates from different time points was 8.23 x 10-4, indicating within-host evolution with an average molecular clock rate of 1.3 x 10-4 substitutions/site/year. Recent antral isolates had increased diversity compared to ancestral isolates, demonstrating accumulation of genetic diversity during chronic infection. Cell envelope genes, including outer membrane proteins (OMPs), accumulated a disproportionate number of nonsynonymous SNPs, suggesting a selective advantage in both the acute phase of infection as a mechanism of adaptation to a specific host and in the chronic phase of infection as a mechanism to persist in changing host environments. Recent isolates had 7 unique nSNPs in cagY and several nSNPs within the middle repeat region of cagY, which can undergo recombination resulting in expansion or contraction of repeats and attenuate or enhance Cag T4SS-dependent IL-8 secretion. All recent isolates and ancestral isolate SC4 shared the same RFLP pattern, but the SC4 cagY allele carried two unique nSNPs not found in any other isolates in the collection. The study also found that recent isolates within the same cell shape phenotype category were more genetically similar than recent isolates from different cell shape categories and that genetic divergence positively correlates with phenotypic divergence in wavenumber and size curvature per unit axis length, indicating a signature of selection for loss in helical shape within this sub-population of recent isolates. The findings suggest that subgroup differentiation within a population of isolates collected from a single time point may have phenotypic consequences for infection.
 Soil-transmitted helminths (STH) infections, including Ascaris lumbricoides, Trichuris trichiura, Ancylostoma duodenale, and Necator americanus, cause significant morbidity in children and women of reproductive age. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends preventive chemotherapy (PC) using anthelminthic medicines to control STH infections in at-risk populations. Historically, STH have been intensively transmitted in Pemba Island, Zanzibar, with prevalence near 100% in 1994. PC was introduced in the island but was not regularly administered due to drug procurement difficulties. In 2011, a survey estimated a prevalence of STH of 89%, and PC was regularly administered until 2018. A 2021 survey found a prevalence of 80% (95% CI 78.1-81.5), with most infections due to Trichuris trichiura. Over 32% (95% CI 30.3-34.0) of children had infections of moderate or heavy intensity. PC has been conducted in Pemba for over 25 years, but despite its beneficial impact, the prevalence and intensity of STH infections remain high. This is likely due to a combination of irregular PC, climatic conditions favorable to STH transmission, the low sensitivity of T. trichiura to benzimidazoles, high population density, and poor sanitation. Improvement of sanitation coverage remains a key measure to permanently reduce the prevalence and intensity of STH. Possible changes to PC approaches in Pemba include assuring high coverage and compliance in all schools, using mebendazole instead of albendazole, and co-administering ivermectin with mebendazole.
 Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) is a mosquito-borne alphavirus that causes millions of infections globally. CHIKV enters cells via clathrin-mediated endocytosis and undergoes membrane fusion primarily from Rab5-positive early endosomes. The intracellular trafficking behavior of CHIKV particles during cell entry was examined, revealing two distinct patterns: half of the particles remained static during cell entry and predominantly fused in the cell periphery, while the other half showed fast-directed microtubule-dependent movement prior to delivery to Rab5-positive early endosomes and predominantly fused in the perinuclear region of the cell. Disruption of the microtubule network reduced the number of infected cells and impaired the delivery of the viral genome to the cell cytosol, suggesting that microtubules may direct the particle to a cellular location beneficial for establishing infection or aid in nucleocapsid uncoating.
 Cyclic di-AMP (c-di-AMP) is an essential nucleotide second messenger in many bacteria, including Bacillus subtilis. Its essentiality is due to its global impact on different aspects of cellular physiology, particularly in controlling potassium and osmolyte homeostasis. In B. subtilis, c-di-AMP binds to two signal transduction proteins, DarA and DarB, and several potassium, osmolyte, and magnesium transporters, as well as the riboswitch that controls the expression of high-affinity potassium transporters KtrAB and KimA.To gain further insights into the critical functions of c-di-AMP in B. subtilis, suppressor mutants were isolated from a c-di-AMP-free strain (GP2222) that had adapted to tolerate the presence of glutamate or to grow on complex medium. The suppressor analysis was complemented by a transcriptome analysis to understand the roles of glutamate and potassium as well as of c-di-AMP for global gene expression in B. subtilis.The results indicated that the adaptation to either glutamate or complex medium usually requires the simultaneous presence of multiple suppressor mutations that often affect potassium uptake, osmolyte uptake, or glutamate metabolism. Moreover, a mechanosensitive channel and phospholipid biosynthesis play an important role in the sensitivity of a strain lacking c-di-AMP to glutamate.The major glutamate transporter in B. subtilis was identified as the amino acid transporter YbeC (renamed AimA), which is the major serine transporter in the organism. The c-di-AMP-binding signal transduction proteins DarA and DarB seem to be toxic in the absence of c-di-AMP, and only in their absence could suppressor mutants be isolated.The obtained results shed light on the complexity of c-di-AMP essentiality and open new directions of research.
 Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a widely prevalent human herpesvirus that can cause lymphomas and epithelial cell cancers. In immunocompromised hosts, EBV can cause endemic Burkitt lymphoma and post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorders/lymphomas. EBV breaches cellular barriers to cell proliferation by preventing phosphorylation of Chk1, which suppresses the intra-S phase cell-cycle checkpoint and impairs homologous recombination repair (HR). This defect in HR makes EBV-transformed cells susceptible to PARP inhibition and reliance on error-prone microhomology-mediated end-joining (MMEJ) repair.Our study demonstrates that EBV-transformed cells with constitutively active STAT3, though deficient in HR, competently repair DSBs via MMEJ, rapidly accrue genome-wide scars from MMEJ-mediated deletions and insertions, and succumb to PARP inhibition. We also identified a STAT3-gene signature that predicts susceptibility of EBV-unrelated cancer cell lines, including blood cancer lines, to PARP inhibition. Our findings provide insights into the role of constitutively active STAT3 in HR impairment and BRCAness in EBV-transformed cells and open the possibility of personalizing synthetic lethal therapy for patients with STAT3hi cancers.We found that EBV-transformed cells utilize MMEJ to repair DSBs and rapidly accrue genome-wide scars from MMEJ-mediated deletions and insertions. These findings should apply to EBV-LPD, BL, and DLBCL harboring EBV in type III latency. The existence of MMEJ-signatures in pre-existing deletions and insertions in primary B cells hints at roles for MMEJ-mediated repair in physiologic contexts. Our findings indicate that EBV-lymphomas may be effectively treated with Olaparib, a strategy that has not been previously considered.We used primary antibodies for immunologic applications, including rabbit anti-human STAT3, rabbit anti-human pSTAT3 (Y705), mouse anti-human RAD51, rabbit anti-human pATR (S428), mouse anti-human β-actin, rat anti- (EBV) EBNA2 (clone R3), HRP-anti-mouse Ab, HRP-anti-rabbit Ab, FITC-anti-mouse IgG, PE-anti-rabbit IgG, and PE-anti-rat IgG. We assessed cell-cycle distribution using anti-EBNA2 antibody and propidium iodide, and performed DR-GFP and EJ2-GFP assays. Data were acquired using a FACS Calibur and analyzed using FlowJo software. Cells were stained as for flow cytometry, washed, cytospun onto glass slides, air dried, and mounted with DAPI Prolong Gold Anti-fade. Images were acquired at 40× magnification on an AxioScope A1 microscope with SPOT v4.0 software. When counting cells with nuclear foci, images were blinded and counted by two individuals; only nuclei with ≥5 foci were considered positive. Total extracts from 1x106 per mL cells were analyzed by immunoblotting. Plasmids DR-GFP, pCBASce (encoding I-Sce1 enzyme), and pCAGGS were gifts from Dr. Maria Jasin, and EJ2-GFP-puro was a gift from Dr. Jeremy Stark. Plasmids bearing wild-type and phosphorylation site Chk1 mutant S345A were gifts from Dr. Kum Kum Khanna. BL cells and EBV-LCL were transfected using an Amaxa II nucleofector with plasmids or siRNA. Sample sequencing was outsourced to BGI, who used a standard bioinformatics pipeline for indel detection. Custom R scripts were used to implement the analysis. Any indels previously identified by the 1000 genomes, ESP6500, or dbSNP141 were removed, as were any that were shared between the two human samples. For analysis of deletions with microhomology, the sequence adjacent to each deletion was extracted based on the human genome, and for analysis of "small" delet
 Buruli ulcer is a chronic, debilitating disease caused by Mycobacterium ulcerans, which has been reported in over 33 countries, primarily in Africa, South America, and the Western Pacific. Early diagnosis and treatment are crucial to minimize morbidity, costs, and prevent long-term disability. The gold standard for clinical diagnostic confirmation is the quantitative PCR (qPCR) targeting the insertion sequence IS2404 of M. ulcerans in cutaneous samples. However, the confirmation rate of this test in endemic countries is low, with only around 30% in 2018. In response, 11 laboratories in 9 African countries formed the Buruli Ulcer Laboratories Network (BU-LABNET) in 2019 to harmonize procedures and improve diagnostic quality.The network compared and validated various DNA extraction and qPCR methods to ensure consistency and efficiency. The alkaline lysis procedure, which is known to be a robust, rapid, and inexpensive method, was chosen for DNA extraction from swabs and FNA samples. The HOT FIREPol Probe Universal qPCR Mix was selected as the standard qPCR master mix due to its stability at room temperature, cost-effectiveness, and guaranteed availability in Africa.The harmonized procedures were disseminated to all laboratories, and all 11 laboratories have since switched to the new DNA extraction and qPCR methods for routine diagnosis. The first EQA program round was completed by 10 participating laboratories, with 7 laboratories achieving 100% concordant results. The false negatives could be attributed to problems originating from the extraction procedure and/or pipetting techniques.The BU-LABNET aims to improve diagnostic performance, increase the qPCR confirmation rate, and eventually integrate other neglected tropical diseases, such as yaws, onto the molecular platform. The network's vision is to enhance the continued high performance of the network laboratories through onsite assessments, online troubleshooting, and mentoring. National programs and NGOs must invest in communication between hospitals and laboratories and ensure the delivery of samples becomes frequent and reliable. Laboratories have a maximum of 7 days to deliver results upon receipt of samples. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, the number of cases diagnosed by the laboratories has significantly increased in 2021. The importance of testing for the bacillus before starting treatment is evident, as the PCR positivity rate of suspected cases is less than 50% in all laboratories.
 In this study, molecular dynamics simulations were conducted to investigate the mechanism of CD44 translocation in membranes, mediated by palmitoylations and the presence of PIP2 lipids. CD44 is a cell adhesion molecule that plays a crucial role in connecting various cellular activities. Its translocation inside cell membranes is determined by the composition of membrane microenvironments and specific modifications on the TM proteins.The results of the simulations revealed a delicate balance between protein modifications and membrane composition that influences both the distribution of CD44 and its ability to bind the cytoskeletal adaptor FERM. CD44-WT prefers to reside in non-raft domains, while attachment of palmitoyl groups increases its raft affinity. In a plasma membrane model, CD44-WT accumulates PIP2 and unsaturated lipids in its vicinity, while the introduction of palmitoylations enhances its ability to sequester more saturated lipids. The co-localization of CD44 and the cytoskeleton adaptor is found to promote in invasive cancer cells, and it is speculated that the ERMs sequester CD44 in the non-raft domain to accelerate cellular migration. Palmitoylations can suppress the spread of tumor cells by keeping CD44 and the ERM adaptors in separate micro- or nano-domains of the membrane.The palmitoylation site at Cys-286 is located in the TM and thus buried in the membrane, while Cys-295 is located at the disordered CT. Cys-295 is likely to be easier palmitoylated by palmitoyl acetyltransferases that reside in the raft domain, which cannot be readily entered by the TM of CD44 without palmitoyl moieties. Furthermore, CD44 can form homodimers or dimers with other growth factors, and this contact can act as another barrier for the palmitoylation of the TM site.The association of CD44 and the FERM domain can be accelerated in the presence of multivalent PIP2 lipids. PIP2 allows FERM to bind to the surface of the membrane, which in turn enhances the binding affinity of the FERM to the membrane. Since PIP2 prefers to reside in the non-raft domain due to its unsaturated bonds in the sn-2 hydrocarbon tail, FERM will be localized at the non-raft domain as well. PIP2 lipids enable single palmitoylated CD44 to migrate to the non-raft domain, thus allowing CD44 and FERM to be co-localized. The change of the raft affinity is achieved by a clustering of PIP2 around the basic residues at the surface between CT and TM that effectively shields the moieties from interacting with the raft lipids.The clustering of PIP2 around CD44 allows the CT to stretch and detach from the membrane surface, thus allowing an easier binding to the FERM. The degree of palmitoylations of CD44 and the amount of PIP2 in the membrane critically depend on the binding of CD44 and FERM, like dimerization of several CD44 units, subsequent palmitoylations of CD44 via PAT, and depalmitoylations with corresponding enzymes. PIP2 clustering recruited by membrane proteins is often stable in CG simulations, and even small concentrations of PIP2 can greatly enhance the adsorption of FERM.The membrane type and the localization within the cell are of crucial importance, as raft domains cover typically only a small amount of the membrane surface, and PIP2 lipids are especially enriched in certain cellular junctions like lamellipodia of migrating cells. Therefore, there are several different pathways with which the binding of CD44 and the membrane adaptor can be regulated.The study revealed the competitive relationship of acylation modifications on the one hand and lipid-mediated regulation on the other hand at near-to-atomistic resolution. The information of the membrane translocation, structural transformation of CD44, and the binding to membrane adaptors, mediated by PIP2 and different palmitoylations, can significantly enhance our comprehension of membrane protein regulation pathways.
 Fire ant rafts are collective living systems that exhibit cooperative emergent functions, such as the ability to form tether-like protrusions that facilitate exploration and escape from flooded environments. These protrusions emerge spontaneously due to local interactions between ants, as demonstrated by an ant-inspired agent-based numerical model. The model consists of a structural layer of interconnected worker ants that floats on the water and gives ant rafts their form, and a dispersed layer of motile ants that walk on top of the floating network. Local interactions occur between neighboring free ants, and the persistence length of freely active agents is tuned to match experimental trajectories. The treadmilling of the raft occurs as agents transition between the structural and free layers. The model demonstrates that phases of exploratory protrusion growth may be induced by increased ant activity, as characterized by a dimensionless parameter A. These results provide an example of how functional morphogenesis of a living system may emerge purely from local interactions at the constituent length scale, and inspire the development of decentralized, autonomous active matter and swarm robotics.
 This study aimed to investigate the olfactory gene repertoires of Culex pipiens quinquefasciatus (Cq) and Culex pipiens molestus (Cm), two subspecies of the Culex pipiens complex with distinct blood-feeding behaviors. The researchers conducted transcriptome sequencing on antennae of both subspecies before and after blood feeding, followed by bioinformatics analysis and qPCR validation. The results showed that 22,293 transcripts were obtained, with significant differences in gene expression between the two subspecies before and after blood feeding. Prior to blood feeding, 1,923 transcripts differed significantly between the two subspecies, while 3,979 transcripts differed after blood feeding. Among these, 123/51 transcripts had significantly higher/lower expression in Cq than in Cm, regardless of whether the mosquitoes had fed on blood.The researchers identified 640 upregulated and 1,382 downregulated transcripts expressed in both Cq and Cm. They also identified 5 and 7 Cq-specific and Cm-specific OBPs, respectively. The expression levels of some OBPs and ORs were significantly different between the two subspecies, suggesting their potential role in the blood-feeding behavior differences. For example, OR5 was expressed only in Cq, and OR65 was the only gene upregulated in Cm after blood feeding. The RNAi of OR5 and OR78 in Cq significantly inhibited its blood-feeding behavior, providing new targets for screening effective repellent compounds.The study also highlighted the importance of further research on the functional characterization of entire receptor repertoires to explain the relationships between certain odorants and receptors in guiding blood-feeding behaviors. Overall, this study provides valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms behind the differences in blood-feeding behaviors between Cq and Cm, and lays the foundation for the development of targeted interventions to control mosquito-borne diseases.
 The hippocampus encodes spatial information through place cells, which are formed and stabilized through a combination of somatic disinhibition, dendritic inhibition, and synaptic plasticity. During exploration of novel environments, place cells are rapidly formed and their firing rate increases, but they return to baseline levels in familiar environments. Place fields in familiar environments are more stable than in novel environments due to stronger excitatory synaptic weights and strong dendritic inhibition. The model suggests that different types of interneurons are essential to unravel the mechanisms underlying place field plasticity. Silent cells can be transiently turned into place cells through a combination of somatic depolarization and dendritic inputs. The reduction in dendrite-targeting inhibition and increase in soma-targeting inhibition during exploration of novel environments open a window for plasticity, leading to the formation and stabilization of receptive fields. The model predicts that small induction areas and induction in novel environments are more effective at inducing place field shift. The increase in soma-targeting interneuron activity can also control plasticity at CA1 pyramidal neurons. The model provides several predictions that could be tested experimentally, such as the development of place fields in the absence of a novelty signal, the effect of the persistent sodium current on place field amplitude, and the efficiency of perturbation protocols to shift place field location. The model complements previous models by introducing interneuron diversity and the interaction between excitatory and inhibitory plasticity. The novelty signal could be responsible for the global emergence of place fields, while the interaction between excitatory and inhibitory plasticity could be responsible for their refinement. The model offers a possible mechanism for place field stabilization and highlights the importance of interneuron diversity and the balance between strong excitatory and inhibitory inputs for this stabilization.
 Molecular xenomonitoring (MX), the detection of Onchocerca volvulus DNA in Simulium spp. black fly vectors, is recommended for onchocerciasis surveillance in elimination settings. However, the sensitivity of MX for detecting onchocerciasis-positive communities and the relationship between MX rates and human microfilaria (mf) prevalence is poorly understood. A systematic review was conducted to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of MX methods for characterizing the community burden of onchocerciasis. The primary objective was to assess the sensitivity of MX for detecting onchocerciasis-positive areas and explore the factors that affect this sensitivity. A secondary objective was to evaluate the relationship between mf prevalence and MX rates.Fifteen relevant studies were identified, with 13 studies comprising 34 study communities included in the quantitative analyses. Most communities were at advanced stages towards elimination and had no or extremely low human mf prevalence. MX detected positive flies in every study area with >1% mf prevalence, except for one study conducted in the Venezuelan Amazonian focus. A significant relationship was found between mf prevalence and MX rate, with mf prevalence accounting for half of the variation in MX rate (R2 0.50, p<0.001).MX is sensitive to communities with ongoing onchocerciasis transmission and has potential to predict human mf prevalence. However, further data is required to understand this relationship, particularly from MX surveys conducted earlier in control programmes before transmission has been interrupted. MX overcomes many of the challenges associated with parasitological and serological surveillance as it measures current infections and does not require invasive sampling. It may also become a valuable surveillance tool at earlier stages of control programmes.The sensitivity of MX for detecting onchocerciasis-positive communities is currently restricted by an inability to interpret MX results in the context of disease indicators that guide programme decisions. To expand the utility of MX, valuable information will come from control programmes that utilize MX methods earlier in their progress towards elimination. Data comparing MX surveys with concurrent parasitological surveys across a greater range of transmission levels would strengthen our certainty in the existing recommendations and help inform our interpretation of MX results for other programmatic goals. Collection of such data could be facilitated by control programmes utilizing MX methods earlier in the elimination pathway. Other areas for future research include improving the sustainability of MX, for example through the development of a sampling strategy that does not depend on human landing catches.
 This study investigates the association between MASP1 gene variants and susceptibility to leprosy and the different clinical forms of the disease. Leprosy patients presented lower MASP-3 and MAp44 levels compared to controls, and individuals with higher levels of these proteins were more frequent among controls and non-lepromatous patients. The results suggest that MASP-3 and MAp44 may play a role in the establishment of infections and in leprosy progression, and their availability in serum may be regulated by polymorphisms. The study also found associations between CR1 gene polymorphisms and leprosy and a negative correlation between anti-inflammatory soluble CR1 and pro-inflammatory MBL levels. All these associations were found with South Brazilian leprosy patients. The study provides a better understanding of the immunological clinical spectrum of leprosy and the role played by the lectin pathway in mycobacterial infections.
