 Membrane proteins have unique traits, including a significant fraction of hydrophobic amino acids being exposed to the hydrophobic core of lipid bilayers rather than the protein interior. This property, often overlooked in protein structure and function predictions, can be described using the membrane contact probability (MCP). MCP quantifies the likelihood of amino acids in a sequence being in direct contact with the acyl chains of lipid molecules. It is complementary to solvent accessibility and can be predicted using machine learning methods based on the MemProtMD database. The MCP can improve the precision of protein contact maps and structures, making it an essential property for membrane protein studies. The MCP prediction is more accurate than simple hydrophobicity scales and agrees better with MD observations. It is also beneficial for 3D protein structure prediction and can be used to identify membrane-interacting residues of soluble or membrane-anchored proteins. However, limitations include the need for larger datasets with more comprehensive information and the inability to distinguish specific lipid-binding sites from the prediction alone. Future studies will explore potential applications, such as determining the correct orientation of membrane proteins when embedded into membranes and positioning membrane-anchored proteins in close proximity to membranes for further studies.
 The COVID-19 pandemic requires efficient and reliable simulation to predict and manage the spread of the disease. Traditional mathematical models, such as the SEIR approach, have limitations in handling population heterogeneity and spatial context at sufficient resolution. Agent-based models (ABMs), where agents represent individuals and move and transmit the infection among each other, offer unparalleled resolution and performance in terms of infection events and agent movement. PanSim is an agent-based model that allows for the contrast of various non-pharmaceutical interventions' efficacy. It uses a city-sized societal environment and considers factors such as age, sex, medical preconditions, and daily routines. The model simulates the spread of a fast-spreading virus variant, such as B.1.1.7, and its impact on hospitalization numbers.PanSim's key parameters include the infectiousness parameter k of the original strain, the increased transmissibility parameter for B.1.1.7, and the increased likelihood of hospitalization and death for B.1.1.7. The model also considers quarantine procedures, testing, and vaccination strategies. The results show that quarantine procedures following different rules, such as quarantining diagnosed infected patients only (Q1) or quarantining households and contacts (Q2 and Q3), significantly impact the severity of the pandemic. Extensive testing followed by quarantining can repress the pandemic with a moderately infective virus, but it is incapable of controlling the pandemic of a highly transmissible and more harmful variant, such as B.1.1.7, even with vaccination.Vaccination strategies prioritize either vulnerable groups or occupational risk groups. Vulnerability-based prioritization minimizes mortality but implies an increased infection rate, while occupational risk-based prioritization minimizes infections but allows for higher mortality. Increasing vaccination intensity has a larger effect on controlling the pandemic than varying the vaccination order. Curfew and lockdown of social event sites, restaurants, and pubs are crucial strategies to control pandemics by decreasing the number of interactions between individuals. The model also analyzes the effects of lifting these restrictions at different time points and shows that reopening close to the peak of the pandemic can lead to the collapse of the healthcare system and increase total death cases.The simulator was validated using contact matrices and hospitalization numbers from national data. The model follows the contact tracing concept, where housemates, classmates, or workmates of positively tested individuals are tested the next day with some probability. The model does not involve patients or the public in its design, conduct, reporting, or dissemination plans.
 This study aimed to develop a histology index for interpreting duodenal biopsies in children with environmental enteric dysfunction (EED), a condition linked to poor childhood growth in low-income countries. Biopsies from four cohorts, including children with severe acute malnutrition in Zambia and Pakistan, children with clinically suspected gluten-sensitive enteropathy, and control children, were analyzed. The histology index, developed using a hypothesis-free approach, includes 11 histopathological parameters representing various injury response mechanisms. Inter-observer concordance was assessed, and the index showed good agreement among pathologists. The histology scores did not significantly correlate with clinical characteristics, including HIV infection status, anthropometric parameters, or laboratory markers. The Pakistani cohort had markedly increased IELs and notable enterocyte injury, epithelial detachment, and severe villous architectural damage compared to the other cohorts. The index can be used to identify histopathologic processes that distinguish EED from other enteropathies and inform novel intervention targets and assess response to interventions. Future work includes refining the scoring system and applying it to a larger and more diverse cohort of patients with EED.
 Transparent games are a new game-theoretic setting where players have a probabilistic access to the information about the current choices of other players. In contrast to classical simultaneous and sequential games, transparent games allow for action visibility, which significantly affects the evolution of cooperation in two-player two-action games. In this study, the authors focus on the iterated Prisoner's Dilemma (PD) and the iterated (Anti-) Coordination Game (i(A)CG) and demonstrate that even a small probability of seeing the partner's choice before making one's own decision substantially changes the evolutionary successful strategies.In both games, the authors show that "Win-stay, lose-shift" (WSLS) and "Tit-for-tat" (TFT) strategies are predominant for moderate transparency, while a "Leader-Follower" (L-F) strategy emerges for high transparency. The results have implications for studies of human and animal social behavior, especially for the analysis of dyadic and group interactions.In the transparent versions of the games, the structure of the Nash equilibria for the Hawk-Dove and Leader games is identical to that of the i(A)CG, suggesting that transparency has a strong effect on successful strategies in these games as well. The authors also discuss the potential applications of transparent games to experimental research on social interactions and the analysis of cooperation in various contexts.In summary, transparent games provide a theoretically attractive link between classical concepts of simultaneous and sequential games and a computational tool for modeling real-world interactions. The approach allows integrating work on sensorimotor decision-making under uncertainty with economic game theory, and is expected to help establish a deeper understanding of social behavior in humans and animals.
 Telomere maintenance mechanisms in human cancers primarily involve telomerase activity or the alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT) pathway. ALT is utilized by 15% of cancers, particularly those of mesenchymal origin, and is characterized by extreme telomere length heterogeneity and an absence of telomerase activity. The ALT pathway is initiated by the loss of the Alpha Thalassemia/Mental Retardation Syndrome X-Linked (ATRX) gene, which is frequently found in ALT cancers.The loss of ATRX, coupled with telomere dysfunction during crisis, is sufficient to initiate the ALT pathway and confer replicative immortality in human fibroblasts. In HCT116 epithelial cancer cells, the loss of ATRX and telomere dysfunction during crisis led to the initiation of an ALT-like pathway, characterized by rapid and precise telomeric elongation and the induction of C-circles. However, this process was transient, and the telomeres ultimately continued to erode, leading to either cell death or the escape from crisis associated with telomerase activation.Telomere sequencing revealed that all alleles, regardless of whether they were elongated, were enriched in variant repeat types, which appeared to be cell-line specific. These findings demonstrate that the loss of ATRX combined with telomere dysfunction during crisis induces the ALT pathway in fibroblasts and enables a transient activation of ALT in epithelial cells.
 Toxoplasma gondii, an intracellular parasite, utilizes secretory organelles called rhoptries, micronemes, and dense granules to invade host cells. Dense granules, which are randomly distributed in the parasite cytosol, play a crucial role in modulating host metabolic and immune responses by releasing effectors. The mechanisms regulating dense granule exocytosis at the parasite plasma membrane are not well understood.In this study, the role of Rab11A, a known regulator of exocytosis in eukaryotic cells, in promoting the cytoskeleton-driven transport of dense granules and the release of their content into the vacuolar space was investigated. Rab11A also regulates transmembrane protein trafficking and localization during parasite replication and regulates extracellular parasite motility and adhesion to host cells.Rab11A localizes to the Golgi/Endosome-Like Compartment (ELC) during the G1 phase and co-distributes with TgSortilin-like Receptor (TgSORTLR), a TGN marker. During cytokinesis, Rab11A is mostly localized adjacent to the Rab5A signal defining the early ELC and transports newly synthesized material between the Golgi and the apical tip of the growing buds. Rab11A also accumulates at the basal pole of the parasite at the end of cytokinesis.Using super-resolution live imaging, bi-directional trajectories of Rab11A-positive vesicles between the basal and apical poles of the parasite both within the parasite cytosol and along the parasite cortex were observed. Rab11A also plays a role in vesicle budding from the TGN/ELC, cargo transport between the apical and basal poles of the parasite, and material exchange between replicating parasites via release of vesicles at the basal pole.Rab11A regulates actin-dependent material exchanges between parasites or the dynamics of the cell-to-cell connecting network by regulating actin-dependent vesicle movements. Rab11A-positive vesicles and tubular-like structures were observed within the residual body region, which harbors a dense actino-myosin network that interconnects intracellular dividing tachyzoites. Rab11A-positive vesicles move along actin-positive structures at the parasite cortex or anchor to dynamic F-actin structures within the parasite cytosol. Depolymerizing actin filaments by cytochalasin D led to the formation of cytosolic and cortical Rab11A-positive clusters that displayed confined trajectories.Collectively, these data demonstrate that Rab11A plays a multifaceted role in regulating dense granule exocytosis, transmembrane protein delivery at the parasite plasma membrane, and extracellular parasite motility and adhesion to host cells.
 This study investigates the behavior of a computational model of the barrel cortex network (BCN) in response to single-cell stimulation using different readout schemes. The BCN is a recurrent network consisting of excitatory regular spiking (RS) neurons, inhibitory fast-spiking (FS) neurons, and somatostatin-expressing low-threshold spiking (SOM-LTS) inhibitory neurons. The network keeps firing asynchronously and does not burst, and the probability of a behavioral response is not substantially influenced by the duration or intensity of a constant stimulus but is strongly dependent on whether irregular or regular stimuli are used.The model includes several features of the barrel cortex, such as spike-frequency adaptation, experimentally constrained numbers and types of chemical synapses with short-term plasticity, and gap junctions. The results indicate that cellular and synaptic adaptation mechanisms alone may not suffice to account for the experimental results if the local network activity is read out by an integrator. However, a circuit that approximates a differentiator can detect the single-cell stimulation with a reliability that barely depends on the length or intensity of the stimulus but increases when an irregular signal is used.The findings are in accordance with experimental results obtained for the stimulation of a regularly-spiking excitatory cell and suggest that the barrel cortex responds more like a differentiator than an integrator. The model suggests that at least one further processing stage is needed to explain the experiments from ref. [6], which, in these earlier work, was not needed to explain the response properties of the barrel cortex. The involvement of further processing stages is also reasonable if one takes into account that the barrel cortex is part of a primary sensory area and that it is unlikely that it can encode a decision or elicit a motor response directly.The study also considers the effect of different stimulus properties on the response probability of the detector for each of the three readout procedures. The results show that the probability of a behavioral response is not substantially influenced by the duration or intensity of a constant stimulus but is strongly dependent on whether irregular or regular stimuli are used. The model suggests that the increased response probability for an irregular stimulation and the weak sensitivity to a step-current bring to mind the observation that irregular stimuli increase the response consistency of a single cortical cell in vitro. However, it is still unclear whether specific anatomical properties of the barrel cortex make it particularly sensitive to the single-cell stimulation. The model suggests that other cortical areas might be sensitive to the single-cell stimulation if they possess similar characteristics.The study also investigates how the properties of the stimulus influence the response probability of the detector for each of the three readout procedures. The results show that the probability of a behavioral response is not substantially influenced by the duration or intensity of a constant stimulus but is strongly dependent on whether irregular or regular stimuli are used. The model suggests that the increased response probability for an irregular stimulation and the weak sensitivity to a step-current bring to mind the observation that irregular stimuli increase the response consistency of a single cortical cell in vitro. However, it is still unclear whether specific anatomical properties of the barrel cortex make it particularly sensitive to the single-cell stimulation. The model suggests that other cortical areas might be sensitive to the single-cell stimulation if they possess similar characteristics.The study also considers the effect of different stimulus properties on the response probability of the detector for each of the three readout procedures. The results show that the probability of a behavioral response is not substantially influenced by the duration or intensity of a constant stimulus but is strongly dependent on whether irregular or regular stimuli are used. The model suggests that the increased response probability for an irregular stimulation and the weak sensitivity to a step-current bring to mind the observation that irregular stimuli increase the response consistency of a single cortical cell in vitro. However, it is still unclear whether specific anatomical properties of the barrel cortex make it particularly sensitive to the single-cell stimulation. The model suggests that other cortical areas might be sensitive to the single-cell stimulation if they possess similar characteristics.The study also considers the effect of different stimulus properties on the response probability of the detector for each of the three readout procedures. The results show that the probability of a behavioral response is not substantially influenced by the duration or intensity of a constant stimulus but is strongly dependent on whether irregular or regular stimuli are used. The model suggests that the increased response probability for an irregular stimulation and the weak sensitivity to a step-current bring to mind the observation that irregular stimuli increase the response consistency of
 This study analyzed the genome changes in single cell lineages from human skin fibroblasts and melanocytes to accurately measure the load and types of somatic genome changes attributable to different DNA damaging processes in each cell. The researchers grew and expanded the cells, extracted genomic DNA, and performed whole-genome sequencing. They identified and removed deaminated cytosines from genomic DNA as an artifact of DNA extraction. They also used three independent mutation callers and stringent filtering criteria to identify clone-specific mutations that were not present in blood of the same donors. The final mutation calls were filtered based on allele frequencies. The researchers also identified and removed structural variants that were present in the dbSNP138 database or overlapped SimpleRepeats tracts. They used Delly to identify structural variants and determined clonality based on the allelic fraction of reads supporting the variants in the clone. They also identified and verified indels using the tool SV-ABA and filtered based on multiple criteria. The researchers used SigProfilerMatrixGenerator and SigProfilerExtractor to identify the different types of indels in their samples and deconvolute the single base substitution, dinucleotide base substitution, and indel signatures in their samples. They also calculated the enrichment of mutation signatures in each sample and identified the contributions of COSMIC signatures in their samples using MutationalPatterns. The study provides an accurate and comprehensive catalog of the somatic genome changes attributable to different DNA damaging processes in human skin cells, which is required for defining disease level of somatic genome instability. The study was conducted using samples from healthy cancer-free skin, and all participants provided written consent and self-identified race. The samples were collected from donors' hips, and fibroblasts and melanocytes were identified and grown in culture. The researchers also analyzed whole-genome sequenced clonal hip fibroblasts from two donors obtained in a previous study.
 Clonorchiasis, caused by the liver fluke Clonorchis sinensis, is a neglected tropical disease and a public health issue in endemic countries, including Vietnam. This study aimed to determine the prevalence of C. sinensis infection and associated risk factors in rural communities in northern Vietnam. The study was conducted in Yen Bai and Thanh Hoa provinces, where clonorchiasis is known to be present and raw fish consumption is common. A cross-sectional survey was conducted in four communes, using a simple random sampling approach and collecting stool samples from 841 participants over 6 years old for coprological examination and questionnaires from 757 participants over 15 years old. The overall prevalence of C. sinensis infection was 40.4%, with significant differences between communes. Males, recent raw fish consumption, low education level, lack of treatment, being between 19 to 39 years old, and the presence of an unhygienic toilet were significantly associated with C. sinensis infection. The study highlights the need for control measures, including mass drug administration and health education campaigns, to reduce the prevalence of clonorchiasis in endemic areas.
 Skin problems, including scabies, tungiasis, and tinea infections, are significant health concerns for schoolchildren in rural Ethiopia, despite receiving less attention in global health studies due to their low mortality rates. Previous studies have attempted to identify risk factors using the frequentist approach, but this study aimed to assess occurrence and risk factors using both frequentist and Bayesian approaches.The study assessed 864 schoolchildren aged 7-14 years in the Wonago district of southern Ethiopia, detecting potential risk factors for scabies, tungiasis, and tinea infections and recording hygienic practices and socio-demographic information. The frequentist model revealed a clustering effect of 8.8% at the classroom level and an insignificant effect at the school level, while the Bayesian model revealed a clustering effect of 16% at the classroom level and 5.3% at the school level. Almost three-quarters of the sample had at least one type of skin problem, and boys were at higher overall risk than girls (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] 1.55 [95% Bayesian credible interval [BCI] 1.01, 2.28]).Risk factors for skin infections included unclean fingernails, not washing the body or hair with soap every week, sharing beds, clothes, or combs, and living in a poor household. Washing legs and feet with soap daily was identified as a protective factor for each of the three skin diseases. The findings suggest the need to improve children's personal hygiene through health education by schoolteachers and health workers.The study also observed high variation in skin problems at the classroom level, indicating the presence of shared risk factors in these locations. The findings underscore the importance of the Bayesian approach for explaining variations in skin problems and highlight the need for improved school health services and policies to address contagious and highly transmissible skin conditions in Ethiopia.
 This study investigates the role of miR-206 in mycobacterial infection using the zebrafish model of Mycobacterium marinum infection. MiR-206 is a muscle-associated miRNA that has been implicated in viral pathogenesis, neuroinflammation, and reducing replication of influenza virus. In the context of mycobacterial infection, miR-206 expression is dynamically regulated, and its impact on disease is assessed through assessing the bacterial burden following antagomiR knockdown. The results show that miR-206 is upregulated following infection by pathogenic M. marinum and that antagomir-mediated knockdown of miR-206 is protective against infection. This protection is dependent on the Cxcl12/Cxcr4 signalling axis, as shown by enhanced neutrophil recruitment to sites of infection and reduced bacterial burden. Overall, this study demonstrates that pathogenic mycobacteria induce host miR-206 expression to suppress Cxcl12/Cxcr4 signalling and prevent protective neutrophil recruitment to granulomas.
 The epidermis is maintained by continuous cell divisions in the basal layer, where cells can irreversibly delaminate and differentiate. Graph neural network (GNN) models are used to predict cell fate and infer cell interactions in the spatiototemporal dynamics of the epidermis. The GNN model takes in spatiotemporal graphs and cell features, and outputs predictions on the behavior of cells. The model was trained on cell track data from the mouse hind paw and ear epidermis, and the results showed that the GNN model can predict cell fates with significant accuracy and extract cell interaction rules. The model identified neighboring cell fate coordination rules that depend on the region of the body, and demonstrated the ability to infer general cell interaction rules from live data without prior knowledge of the signaling involved. The GNN approach is particularly suited for representing the heterogeneous interactions between cells and the intracellular features extractable from image data. Future work includes testing the model on other tissues and incorporating the replication of nodes in the analysis of multicellular systems.
 This study presents a tensor sparse canonical correlation analysis (TSCCA) method for identifying cancer-related miRNA-gene modules across multiple cancers. TSCCA is able to overcome the limitations of existing solutions and capture both cancer-shared and specific miRNA-gene co-expressed modules with better biological interpretations. The performance of TSCCA was evaluated using a set of simulated data and matched miRNA/gene expression data across 33 cancer types from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. The results uncovered several dysfunctional miRNA-gene modules with important biological functions and statistical significance. These modules can advance our understanding of miRNA regulatory mechanisms of cancer and provide insights into miRNA-based treatments for cancer.Cancer is a complex and heterogeneous disease, and the second leading cause of death worldwide. Despite medical advances, researchers still face challenges for cancer drug resistance, combinatorial drug treatment optimization, and personalized cancer therapy design. An increasing number of studies have reported that abnormal microRNAs (miRNAs) play important roles in cancer occurrence and development, and some miRNAs can be used as drug targets for cancer treatment. miRNAs are small non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression during post-transcriptional processes. In cancer cells, miRNAs have been found to be heavily dysregulated. Thus, they are potential candidates for prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets in cancer.With the development of miRNA sequencing technology, a vast amount of miRNA expression data for multiple species has been accumulated. The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and NCI-60 allow us to obtain matched miRNA and mRNA expression data in certain cancers. These invaluable database repositories provide new paradigms to explore context-specific miRNA-gene regulatory relationship. Several computational methods have been proposed to discover miRNA-gene modules for one cancer or tissue, but they fail to identify cancer-specific and shared miRNA-gene modules when integrating multiple cancer data.Therefore, it is urgently needed to develop new methods to explore the complex cancer-related miRNA-gene patterns by integrating multi-omics data of multi-cancers. In this study, we present a tensor sparse canonical correlation analysis (TSCCA) method for the explorative analysis of matched miRNA and gene expression data of multiple cancers with a focus on identifying cancer-specific and shared miRNA-gene co-expressed modules. TSCCA first calculates a cancer-miRNA-gene correlation tensor, which is a "3D" array with gene, miRNA, and cancer dimensions. Then it decomposes the correlation tensor into a number of latent factors that represent major patterns of variation in the tensor data. Based on their non-zero elements, we can discover a cancer-miRNA-gene module. The main contributions of this study are the design of a statistical learning model TSCCA and the development of an efficient block-coordinate descent algorithm to solve it. The application of TSCCA to a multi-omics data set of 33 cancer types from TCGA database discovered some dysfunctional miRNA-gene modules with important biological functions and statistical significance.
 Synaptic plasticity, the ability of synapses to modify their strength in response to experience, is a crucial mechanism underlying learning and memory. Both short-term and long-term plasticity have been extensively studied, but their interaction and how it shapes synaptic dynamics are less well understood. In this study, researchers used a calcium-based model to investigate how short-term and long-term plasticity together control the induction of synaptic depression and potentiation.The model assumes that pre- and postsynaptic activity induces calcium transients, which in turn drive synaptic long-term plasticity. The researchers found that the model can successfully fit short-term plasticity data obtained in visual and somatosensory cortex, and that the impact of spike-timing and firing rate changes on plasticity occurs in the prevalent firing rate range, which is different in both cortical areas considered.The findings suggest that short- and long-term plasticity are together tuned to adapt plasticity to area-specific activity statistics, such as firing rates. The researchers also found that short-term depression and long-term plasticity interact during induction protocols of synaptic long-term changes using combinations of firing rate and spike-timing. However, the brain region and synapse-specific realizations of short- and long-term plasticity mechanisms remain to be explored.The study provides insights into the complex interplay between short-term and long-term plasticity and highlights the importance of considering both time scales when understanding synaptic function and plasticity.
 This study aimed to compare the early response of Australian black flying foxes and ferrets to Hendra virus (HeV) infection, focusing on the immune response and differences in viral replication. The study used juvenile bats and ferrets, with bats born in captivity and ferrets sourced from a commercial supplier. Animals were inoculated via the oronasal route and euthanized at various time points post-exposure.Viral antigen was detected in the lungs of both bats and ferrets, but the distribution and tissue response differed. In bats, viral antigen was confined to the lung interstitium, while in ferrets, it was also identified in bronchiolar epithelium. In ferrets, there was a prominent inflammatory response and tissue degenerative changes, while in bats, there was minimal tissue and inflammatory response.Transcription of type I and III IFNs and the chemokine CXCL10 revealed species-specific expression patterns. The results showed that both type I and III IFNs were antagonized following HeV infection in bat tissues, but in ferret spleen, IFNA and IFNB increased significantly following infection. CXCL10 increased significantly at 60 hpe in bat lung and spleen tissues, suggesting a protective role in bats.Proteomic analysis of bat and ferret lung tissue at 0 and 60 hpe provided insights into differences in immune pathway activation between the two species. Gene ontology analysis revealed that IFN signaling was upregulated at 60 hpe in the two bats and in one of the two ferret datasets. Proteins contributing to pathways involving neutrophil mediated immunity, T cell mediated immunity, and antibody mediated immunity were significantly more likely to be upregulated in bats compared to ferrets.The study contributes important comparative data on the differences in activation of the host response to HeV in species that respond with innocuous (bats) versus fatal (ferrets) outcomes. The findings suggest an important role for the cell mediated immune response in bats and the potential importance of downregulating the IFN response to avoid immunopathology. Further experiments using larger numbers of each species and more targeted analytical techniques are needed to confirm these findings.
 The study presents CLiP (Correlated Liability Predictors), a method to detect heterogeneity in single GWAS cohorts using a liability threshold model. The method calculates a weighted sum of correlations between SNPs contributing to a polygenic risk score (PRS) on the case/control liability scale. The authors demonstrate mathematically and through simulations that among identical homogeneous cases, significant anti-correlations are expected between otherwise independent predictors due to ascertaination on the hidden liability score. In the presence of heterogeneity from distinct etiologies, confounding by covariates, or mislabeling, these correlation patterns are altered predictably. The authors further extend the method to two additional association study designs: CLiP-X for quantitative predictors in applications such as transcriptome-wide association studies, and CLiP-Y for quantitative phenotypes, where there is no clear distinction between cases and controls. Through simulations, they demonstrate that CLiP and its extensions reliably distinguish between homogeneous and heterogeneous cohorts when the PRS explains as low as 3% of variance on the liability scale and cohorts comprise 50,000-100,000 samples. The authors apply CLiP to heterogeneity detection in schizophrenia cohorts and observe significant heterogeneity in mega-analysis of the combined PGC data and in individual cohorts, based on significantly associated variants. They also apply CLiP-Y to detect heterogeneity in neuroticism and detect heterogeneity with a p-value of 1.68 × 10−9. The scores were not significantly reduced when partitioning by known subclusters, suggesting that these factors are not the primary source of observed heterogeneity.
 This study aimed to develop a deep convolutional neural network (CNN) model to recognize influenza-induced cytopathic effects (CPE) in Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells. The model was trained using two different sets of data, Training 1 and Training 2, which both showed great sensitivity and specificity in recognizing influenza-induced CPE. Training 1, which consisted of 601 images, displayed slightly better performance than Training 2, which had 503 images but more diverse data. The increment in the number of training data was likely due to the bias of training, where more information leads to better accuracy. Training 1 also showed statistically significant earlier recognition of influenza-induced CPE at earlier time points. The model was designed to screen for early recognition of influenza-infected samples and could identify cytopathic effects at 16 hours post-infection. The recognition rate of images taken at 28 hours post-infection was 98.25% and 96.25% for Trainings 1 and 2, respectively. The model was superior to R-mix, which has been shown to be better than conventional culture, and could reduce the screening time for virus isolation. However, one potential pitfall for the model is higher false positive ratios at earlier time points. The model consisted of ten layers, and the larger sizes of convolutional filters and max-pooling kernels were used to provide sufficient information to recognize the features of cytopathic effects. The model was also compared with a transfer learning model, and the accuracy of the model without transfer learning was better by at least 20%. The model was established with small amounts of training data yet having great performance. Future work includes training other models to recognize different kinds of cytopathic effects and applying the model structure to other similar imaging approaches. MDCK cells were cultured in Modified Eagle's Medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum and antibiotics. Influenza virus and parainfluenza virus were amplified in MDCK cells, and other viruses were amplified in HEp2 or MK2 cells. The harvested virus supernatant was titrated by the plaque assay and stored at -80°C for subsequent experiments. MDCK cells were infected with influenza virus, adenovirus, HSV-1, HSV-2, coxsackievirus B3, parainfluenza virus, and RSV for one hour before the addition of MEM supplemented with 2ug/mL TPCK trypsin. The multiplicity of infection of influenza virus used in the study was 0.01, 0.05, 0.1, 0.5, 1, and 2, respectively. The cytopathic effects were recorded by the Olympus IX71 microscope at 16 and 48 hours after infection. The dataset was split into four sets: training set, validation set, testing set, and experiment set. The cytopathic effects were monitored at 16 hours post-infection, and the photos taken in the last two experiments were used as the testing set and the influenza experiment set. All of the training data, testing data, and influenza experiment data included photos of uninfected MDCK cells and influenza-infected MDCK cells. The images of other viruses set were all taken at 40 hours post-infection and were not further labeled. The images of cytopathic effects were recorded by the Olympus IX71 microscope, and the fields were selected and photographed continuously and refocused randomly. The fields of uninfected cells were taken randomly as negative samples. The images of the training, testing set, and influenza experiment set were not taken from the same infection experiment for independence. The model was trained using back propagation, and the weights of the CNN model were initialized randomly. The model was trained using TensorFlow deep learning framework.
 Herpesviruses, including Varicella-zoster virus (VZV), encode inhibitors of host cell death, specifically RIP Homotypic Interaction Motif (RHIM)-containing proteins. VZV is responsible for causing chickenpox and shingles, and we have identified a novel viral RHIM in the VZV capsid triplex protein, open reading frame (ORF) 20. This ORF20 RHIM acts as a host cell death inhibitor and forms fibrillar functional amyloid complexes. Notably, it forms hybrid amyloid complexes with human ZFP1, a cytoplasmic sensor of viral nucleic acid. Although VZV can inhibit TNF-induced necroptosis, the ORF20 RHIM does not appear to be responsible for this inhibition. Instead, the ZFP1 pathway is identified as important for VZV infection. Mutation of the ORF20 RHIM renders the virus incapable of efficient spread in ZFP1-expressing HT-29 cells, an effect which can be reversed by the inhibition of caspases. Therefore, the VZV ORF20 RHIM is important for preventing ZFP1-driven apoptosis during VZV infection and mediates this effect by sequestering ZFP1 into decoy amyloid assemblies.Herpesviruses, including Varicella-zoster virus (VZV), are masters at manipulating host cell death pathways, such as apoptosis and necroptosis, to successfully spread and establish latency. VZV is an exclusively human pathogen and causes significant health burden, but the mechanisms employed by VZV to evade host responses have not been fully elucidated. Primary infection with VZV leads to varicella, or chickenpox, and during this infection, the virus establishes latency within sensory neurons. When VZV-specific T cell immunity wanes, the virus can reactivate to result in herpes zoster, or shingles. Complications arising from VZV reactivation include post-herpetic neuralgia, encephalitis, and VZV vasculopathy. VZV is a highly cell-associated virus and does not release cell-free virions into culture, necessitating cell-associated propagation of the virus in vitro. VZV is also highly species-specific and can only establish a full productive infection in cells of human origin, making it difficult to study its pathogenesis.Cell death can be initiated upon sensing of a viral pathogen as a means of prematurely aborting the virus lifecycle and limiting the spread of infection. Apoptosis and necroptosis may form part of the antiviral response. The most well-characterized pathway of necroptosis is that induced by tumor necrosis factor (TNF). Upon TNF binding to its receptor (TNF-R1), cellular inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (cIAP1 and 2) mediate K63-ubiquitination of receptor interacting protein kinase 1 (RIPK1), as part of a signaling platform known as complex I, which drives NF-κB signaling. If cIAPs are inhibited, RIPK1 can associate with FADD, caspase 8, and cFLIP (termed complex II), leading to the cleavage of caspase 8 to drive apoptosis. However, if caspase 8 is also inhibited, RIPK1 can interact with receptor interacting protein kinase 3 (RIPK3) to drive necroptosis. RIPK1 and RIPK3 interact via highly conserved RHIMs, leading to the assembly of the necrosome complex. The RIPK1:RIPK3 necrosome complex has a fibrillar structure and is stabilized by an amyloid cross-β core, formed by interactions between the RHIMs of the two component proteins. Generation of the necrosome results in the phosphorylation of RIPK3, which subsequently phosphorylates mixed lineage kinase domain-like protein (MLKL). Phosphorylated MLKL drives membrane permeabilization, resulting in rupture of the cell and necroptotic cell death.The cellular Z-DNA binding protein 1 (ZFP1, also known as DAI) contains at least two RHIMs (A and B) and
 This study aimed to understand the relative contributions of exposure, hazard, and vulnerability to the presence and intensity of Schistosoma haematobium re-infection in an endemic region of northern Senegal. The researchers collected parasitological, ecological, and socio-economic data from 13 villages along the Senegal River. They found that hazard, as measured by the area of snail habitat in the water access point nearest a household, and vulnerability, in terms of surface water use and access to sanitation at the household level, were the most important components of S. haematobium presence. Exposure, approximated by a self-reported categorical frequency of contact with surface water per week, and hazard contributed most to the accumulation of S. haematobium parasites in school-age children and thus to infection intensity. The findings highlight the importance of all three components of risk, which act together across time and space to facilitate the acquisition and accumulation of S. haematobium infections in an endemic setting with high incidence of post-treatment re-infection. The insights about the interaction among different components of risk and their impact on different metrics of infection may apply in other endemic settings and generate new knowledge about the processes that lead to the occurrence of persistent hotspots. Understanding the complex relationship between exposure, hazard, and vulnerability is critical to controlling the severe morbidity of schistosomiasis, reducing the transmission of parasites in the environment, and achieving elimination in endemic regions.
 Nigeria has experienced recurring outbreaks of Lassa fever (LF), a hemorrhagic fever caused by the Lassa virus (LASV), primarily in endemic West African countries including Nigeria, Guinea, Sierra Leone, and Liberia. The 2018 Nigerian LF outbreak resulted in over 633 confirmed cases and 171 deaths. The disease burden in Nigeria has been increasing annually, with the majority of infections occurring in northern Nigeria. LASV has a high degree of genetic diversity, making it crucial to understand the scope of LASV pathogenesis and evaluate potential vaccines and medical countermeasures using contemporary isolates from West Africa.Five LASV isolates were collected during the 2018 Nigerian outbreak and subjected to next-generation sequencing. Three isolates, NML-33, NML-46, and NML-57, were selected for characterization in the strain 13 guinea pig model. Despite being closely related and from the same geographic region, only NML-33 proved lethal in both guinea pigs and non-human primates (NHPs). NML-33 exhibited atypical pathogenesis characteristics, most notably respiratory failure, not commonly described in hemorrhagic cases of LF. These results suggest that there is considerable phenotypic heterogeneity in LASV infections in Nigeria, which could account for differences between subclinical and lethal LF infections.The development of disease models using currently circulating LASV strains in West Africa is critical for evaluating potential vaccines and medical countermeasures. The characterization of genetically and geographically diverse LASV isolates in animal models of disease is essential to understanding the scope of LASV pathogenesis and the possible discovery of a universal vaccine candidate.
 Schistosomiasis, caused by blood-dwelling parasites of the genus Schistosoma, affects over 260 million people globally and over 800 million are at risk. This study aimed to evaluate the impact of Schistosoma mansoni infection on hematological and biochemical changes among adult patients attending Haik Primary Hospital in Ethiopia.A comparative cross-sectional study was conducted from February to April 2021, involving 180 participants, including 90 S. mansoni infected adults and 90 healthy controls. The mean age of S. mansoni infected patients and healthy controls was 30.33±12.26 years and 31.2±12.85 years, respectively.The prevalence of anemia and thrombocytopenia among S. mansoni infected patients were 23.3% and 26.7%, respectively. Erythrocytic sedimentation rate (ESR) was significantly elevated among S. mansoni infected patients than healthy controls. The median white blood cell count, red blood cell count, red blood cell indices, and platelet indices were significantly lower among S. mansoni infected patients compared to healthy controls. The median eosinophil count was significantly higher among S. mansoni infected patients than healthy controls.Several liver function tests were also significantly altered in S. mansoni infected patients compared to healthy controls, including elevated levels of serum alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, and direct bilirubin, and decreased levels of albumin, total cholesterol, and triglycerides.The findings of this study highlight the importance of screening for S. mansoni infection in endemic areas, particularly among patients with hematological and/or biochemical abnormalities. The study also emphasizes the need for early diagnosis and treatment of S. mansoni infection to reduce morbidity and mortality associated with the disease. Further studies are recommended to investigate the mechanisms of anemia and thrombocytopenia in S. mansoni infected patients and to evaluate the clinical severity parameters and markers of fibrosis and granulomatous inflammatory cytokines.
 This study aimed to understand the mechanisms underlying suboptimal anti-E2 antibody responses in HCV infection, as inducing high titers of anti-E2 antibodies is a goal of HCV vaccine development. The researchers hypothesized that B cell dysfunction contributes to poor anti-E2 responses in some individuals. They detected HCV E2-specific B cells using a cocktail of soluble E2 (sE2) proteins and analyzed their frequencies and cell surface molecule expression profiles.The researchers observed that sE2+ csBC (class-switched B cells) from both Persistence and Clearance subjects had reduced frequencies of resting memory B cells (rMBC), increased frequencies of activated MBC and tissue-like MBC, and significantly upregulated expression of FCRL5. Plasma anti-E2 IgG levels were positively correlated with frequencies of sE2+ rMBC and sE2+ actMBC, while negatively correlated with levels of FCRL5 expression on sE2+ rMBC and PD-1 expression on sE2+ actMBC.These findings suggest that B cell dysfunction begins in acute HCV infection, and overexpression of FCRL5 on rMBC and PD-1 on actMBC is associated with reduced anti-E2 IgG production in vivo. Further studies are needed to determine if limiting the upregulation of these molecules could potentially generate higher titers of protective antibodies against HCV or other pathogens.The study was approved by the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine's Institutional Review Board, and all participants provided informed written consent. Blood samples were obtained from the Baltimore Before and After Acute Study of Hepatitis (BBAASH) cohort, a prospective cohort of injection drug users in Baltimore followed from before HCV infection through spontaneous clearance/persistence. HCV viral loads were quantified using real-time PCR, and subjects were assigned to either the Clearance or Persistence group based on infection outcome. Genes encoding E2 ectodomains were cloned into a mammalian expression vector, and sE2 expression and ELISA were performed. Sorted B cells were cultured in vitro for antibody production analysis.
