Proteins are composed of long chains of amino acids that fold on themselves to form three-dimensional structures . Many proteins are made in a compartment within the cell called the endoplasmic reticulum and ‘chaperone’ proteins help them fold correctly . Cells carefully regulate the levels of chaperone proteins . If there are too few chaperones in the cell , then newly-made proteins may fold incorrectly and interrupt other processes . On the other hand , if too many chaperones are present they may slow down the protein folding process . If a cell experiences stressful conditions , or if there is a sudden demand for more proteins to be made , protein folding can be disrupted . This leads to an increase in the number of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum and so the cell increases the levels of chaperone proteins to cope with this . Hsp70 chaperones are one family of chaperone proteins . These proteins can be present in a cell as single molecules ( monomers ) or as a group of several chaperone molecules ( oligomers ) . Previous research has suggested that the chaperone proteins in oligomers are inactive , but the oligomers may be rapidly broken down into monomers when the cell needs to fold more proteins . A region within the Hsp70 called the ‘interdomain linker’ is important for regulating the chaperone activity , but it is not clear if this is connected to the formation of oligomers . Preissler et al . used biochemical techniques to study how an Hsp70 protein in the endoplasmic reticulum called BiP forms oligomers . The experiments show that oligomers form when the interdomain linker of one BiP molecule is bound to the region of an adjacent BiP molecule that is normally reserved for binding to unfolded proteins . The presence of the interdomain linker makes it more difficult for unfolded proteins to bind . Further experiments challenged cells with chemicals that caused the number of unfolded proteins in the cells to increase . Under these conditions , there was a decrease in the number of BiP molecules associated with oligomers . Preissler et al . propose that BiP oligomers act as reservoirs to store BiP molecules when they aren't needed by the cell . However , when the levels of unfolded proteins rise , cells can rapidly break up these oligomers to make active monomers that help to deal with the excess numbers of unfolded proteins . Further work is needed to understand how changes in the number of unfolded proteins in cells leads to the formation and disassembly of BiP oligomers .
Any animal with a body that is symmetric about an imaginary line that runs from its head to its tail is known as a bilaterian . Humans and most animals are bilateral , whereas jellyfish and starfish are not . Bilateral symmetry can take many forms—as demonstrated by the differences between flies , frogs and humans—but all bilaterians express many of the same genes during development . One of these groups of genes is known as the Hox family . The expression of specific Hox genes at specific times instructs cells in the developing embryo to adopt different fates according to their position along the anterior–posterior ( head to tail ) axis . The patterning function of Hox genes relies on the presence of two additional cofactors that belong to the so-called TALE family . Although both Hox and TALE proteins were present early on during animal evolution , it is unclear how and when the interactions between them first began to generate symmetrical body plans . Now , Hudry et al . have provided insights into the origin of the Hox-TALE network by analysing the expression and molecular properties of Hox and TALE proteins from various multicellular and unicellular organisms . These experiments revealed that Hox and TALE proteins of the sea anemone Nematostella , which belongs to a group of animals called cnidarians that have radial rather than bilateral symmetry , interact with one another in a similar manner to the interactions seen in bilaterians . Hudry et al . then showed that two Nematostella Hox genes were able to substitute for their bilaterian equivalents in fruit flies , and that a Nematostella TALE gene was able to take over neuronal functions of its equivalent in Xenopus frogs . This striking conservation of function between species suggests that Hox and TALE genes were already working together in the common ancestor of all bilaterian and cnidarian animals . By contrast , TALE members from a unicellular amoeba were unable to interact with Hox proteins , suggesting that Hox–TALE interactions first emerged in multicellular animals . In addition to increasing our knowledge of highly conserved Hox signalling , these data provide insight into the molecular mechanisms that gave rise to the symmetrical body plan that has been adopted , and adapted , by the majority of animals since .
The human eye has many different parts that enable sight . The retina is the light sensitive tissue at the back of the eye , and it contains the fovea , the region that provides the clearest vision . Light must be focused on the retina to create images , a feat achieved by the transparent parts at the front of the eye called the cornea and lens . These parts of the eye are called the optics . Between birth and adulthood , significant changes take place in the eye . Most noticeably , the distance between the optics and the fovea grows by about seven millimeters . Cells called cone photoreceptors , which provide light sensitivity , migrate and pack into the fovea . Finally , the eye’s optics adjust to maintain a sharp focus . At the same time , the brain is learning how to process inputs from the eyes to generate mental images that realistically correspond to the physical world around it . The development of the eye is fascinating in its complexity , but for more and more people , the process does not go as expected . Specifically , a growing proportion of the population has eyes that are too long . This means that , for light reflected by far away objects , the eye’s optics form an image in front of the retina instead of on it . As a result , images of distant objects cannot be seen clearly , a condition known as myopia or nearsightedness . Researchers have also discovered that nearsighted people see less clearly than those who do not use glasses , even when given a sharp image to examine at close range . It has been hypothesized that these deficits result from stretching of the retina as the eye becomes bigger . Until recently , testing this hypothesis by looking at cone photoreceptors directly in the eye was impossible . This is because the optics of all eyes have small imperfections that distort the light passing through them , including any light used to take high resolution microscopic images of the fovea . This hurdle can be overcome using adaptive optics , which means adding a deformable mirror to the instrument being used to image the eye that can adjust to correct the distortion . Wang et al . use a new generation Adaptive Optics Scanning Laser Ophthalmoscope to check the density of cones at the fovea in relation to the size of the eye . They show that although the center of the fovea has fewer cones when the eye is bigger , this effect is more than offset because the longer eye increases magnification . So , if a near-sighted person wearing contacts and someone who does not need glasses stood side-by-side admiring the full moon , the near-sighted person would most likely have more cones sampling the image and should therefore have a higher resolution view . These findings rule out reductions in the density of cone photoreceptors as the cause or effect of visual deficits associated with near-sightedness , adding to the understanding of this common condition .
