Accumulation of aggregates of misfolded protein in brain is a common feature of the damage seen in several neurodegenerative diseases including prion disease , Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease . In the present work three strains of prion disease differed in accumulation of the disease-associated prion protein ( PrPSc ) on neurons and astroglial cells . These patterns were first detectable in the thalamus at 40–60 days after inoculation . This coincided with initial detection of gliosis and PrPSc deposition , but was far in advance of clinical signs or spongiform pathology . In spite of the different patterns of cellular PrPSc deposition , these three strains had similar patterns of expression of a large number of genes known to be active during neuroinflammatory responses and gliosis . However , the gene upregulation in scrapie differed markedly from that seen in two neurovirulent viral diseases , which also had abundant glial responses similar to those observed with prion infection .
Here we show that native HIV-1 Env spikes expressed in a natural membrane context can induce potent tier 2 nAbs in rabbits . These antibodies reacted exclusively with epitopes present on these trimers and not with isolated Env subunits . Intriguingly , the neutralizing sera were found to take advantage of natural gaps in the carbohydrate defenses of Env spikes of the vaccine strain . Some sera were able to neutralize heterologous isolates , provided that a key , regulating glycan was removed . Overall , these findings suggest that native , membrane-expressed trimers hold promise for further development as vaccine candidates . In the future , by adapting our current findings , we might be able to encourage nAb development to key conserved sites by introducing additional , targeted gaps in the trimer's glycan shell . We suggest that the rare ability to predictably induce potent autologous neutralizing antibodies to field isolates , as we report here , provides a foundation for exploring new strategies aimed at inducing neutralization breadth which is widely expected to be essential for vaccine-induced protection .
Light is the principal signal used by animals to synchronize their circadian clocks with the day/night environment . Central to this vital property is the ability of light to trigger changes in gene expression . However , we still lack a complete understanding of how this occurs . The zebrafish is particularly interesting in this regard since direct light exposure induces the expression of clock genes in most of its tissues and in turn adjusts the phase of the intrinsic clocks . Here , by studying the promoter of one key light-regulated zebrafish clock gene , per2 , we have identified a Light Responsive Module ( LRM ) that is necessary and sufficient for light controlled expression . Interestingly , the LRM is also highly conserved in the per2 genes of other vertebrates that lack widespread light-sensing tissues . In addition , the human LRM can substitute for its zebrafish counterpart to confer direct light regulation of gene expression in zebrafish cells . The LRM contains E- and D-box enhancers critical for its function . While the E-box is a target of clock regulation , the D-box directs light driven expression . We show that the expression of the D-box binding transcription factor , tef , is itself induced by light and is essential for normal light-induced per2 expression . These results advance our understanding of the mechanisms underlying entrainment by light and how light-regulated clock gene expression has evolved in vertebrates .
