fleas can transmit Yersinia pestis by two mechanisms , early-phase transmission ( EPT ) and biofilm-dependent transmission ( BDT ) . transmission efficiency varies among flea species and the results from different studies have not always been consistent . one complicating variable is the species of rodent blood used for the infectious blood meal . to gain insight into the mechanism of EPT and the effect that host blood has on it , fleaves were fed bacteremic mouse , rat , and guinea pig blood ; and the location and characteristics of the infection in the digestive tract and transmissibility of Y . pestis were assessed 1 to 3 days after infection . a portion of the infected blood meal into the esophagus within 24 h of feeding . three days after feeding , groups of Oropsylla montana transmitted significantly more CFU than did did groups in
endogenous retroviruses ( ERVs ) are remnants of ancient retroviral infections of the host germline transmitted vertically from generation to generation . however , data suggesting that these mechanisms have been more difficult to obtain . here , we isolated and characterized the evolutionary history and molecular virology of 27 enJSRV proviruse ( enJS56A1 ) , which entered the host genome within the last 3 million y ( before and during speciation within the genus Ovis ) and acquired in two temporally distinct events a defective Gag polyprotein resulting in a transdominant phenotype able to block late replication steps of related exogenous enjSRvs . this study strongly suggests that endogenization and selection of ervs acting as restriction factors is a mechanism used by the host to fight retrovirals .
the hedgehog ( hh ) pathway gene shifted ( shf ) is a secreted protein that facilitates the long distance transmission of the Hh through the proteoglycan matrix after it is released from basolateral membranes of Hh expressing cells in the wing imaginal disc . we show that production of this PGC attractant depends upon shf as well as a second hmgcr-dependent isoprenoid biosynthetic pathway g1 . further linking the ectopic expression of shf in the nervous system to the underlying mesodermal cell layer , where Hh can contact migrating PGCs , we present evidence indicating that the actopically expressed hedgehog - dependent pathway plays a pivotal role in directing migration . a combination of local repulsive cues and attractive signals emanating from the
introduction : we present a study of adult neurogenesis in a simplified hippocampal memory model . the network was required to encode and decode memory patterns despite changing input statistics . we showed that additive neurogenesis was a more effective adaptation strategy compared to neuronal turnover and conventional synaptic plasticity as it allowed the network to respond to changes in the input statistics while preserving representations of earlier environments . here we extend our model to include realistic , spatially driven input firing patterns in the form of grid cells in the entorhinal cortex . this adaptation rule can be tailored to maximise performance of the network when operating as either a short- or long-term memory store .
we first analyzed the transcriptional profiles of mouse ES cells and primordial germ cells and identified genes upregulated in pluripotent cells both in vitro and in vivo . these genes are enriched for roles in transcription , chromatin remodeling , cell cycle , and DNA repair . we developed a novel computational algorithm , CompMoby , which combines analyses of sequences aligned and non-aligned between different genomes with a probabilistic segmentation model to systematically predict short DNA motifs that regulate gene expression . our results suggest that this systematic approach can be broadly applied to understanding transcriptional networks in mammalian species .
background : the current model of hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) production involves the assembly of virions on or near the surface of lipid droplets , envelopment at the ER in association with components of VLDL synthesis , and egress via the secretory pathway . however , the cellular requirements for and a mechanistic understanding of HCV secretion are incomplete at best . we combined an RNA interference ( RNAi ) analysis of host factors for infectious HCV segregation with the development of live cell imaging of hCV core trafficking to gain a detailed understanding of the HCV-egress.materials and methods : this study identifies many new host cofactors of infectious hepatovirus ( ER to Golgi trafficking ) . a tetracysteine tag insertion in core ( TC-core ) was constructed to isolate core protein movements associated with infectious hc virus , including lipid and protein kinases that regulate budding from the trans-Golg
we use molecular dynamics simulations to analyze the conformational behavior of two synthetic peptides , LKKLLKLLKKLLKKL ( LK ) and EAALAEALAE ( EALA ) , with built-in secondary amphiphilicity upon forming an alpha-helix . in this study , we show that the peptids are neither random coils in bulk water nor fully formed alpha helices , but adopt multiple conformations and secondary structure elements with short lifetimes . aggregation behavior is also strongly affected by presence or absence of an interface , and rather subtly depends on their surface charge and hydrophobicity . we find that their conformationally preference is strongly influenced by presence and absence of a interface . our results suggest that aggregates are either randomly coils or fully formed a secondary structure element . these provide a basis for conformation-selection and population-shift upon environmental changes .
we studied a virulent isolate of the leading bacterial pathogen Streptococcus pneumoniae in an infant mouse model of colonization , disease and transmission , both with and without influenza A ( IAV ) co-infection . to identify vulnerable points in the multiple steps involved in pneumococcal pathogenesis , this model was utilized for a comprehensive analysis of population bottlenecks . our findings reveal that in the setting of IAV co- infection the organism must pass through single cell bottles during bloodstream invasion from the nasopharynx within the host and in transmission between hosts . the bottleneck in transmission occurred between bacterial exit from one host and establishment in another explaining why the number of shed organisms in secretions is critical to overcoming it .
we demonstrate that the activity of neutralizing monoclonal antibodies ( mAbs ) and entry inhibitors during cell-cell transmission varies depending on their mode of action . while gp41 directed agents remain active , CD4 binding site directed inhibitors , including the potent neutralizing mabb VRC01 , dramatically lose potency during cell - cell transmission . thus providing a plausible explanation for how HIV maintains infectivity and rapidly escapes potent and broadly active CD4bs directed antibody responses in vivo . this implies that mabs , such as the potency , act preferentially through blocking free virus transmission , while still allowing HIV to spread through cells-cell contacts . here we report on neutralizing antibody activity during cell cell transmission using specifically tailored experimental strategies which enable unambiguous discrimination between the two transmission routes .
background : genetic variants have been identified for many complex diseases . however , it is controversial whether risk prediction based on genomic profiles will be useful clinically . Appropriate statistical measures to evaluate the performance of genetic risk prediction models are required . previous studies have mainly focused on the use of the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve ( ROC ) curve , or AUC , to judge the predictive value of genetic tests.methods:in this study , we develop a novel unifying statistical framework that connects a large variety of predictive indices together . we showed that , given the overall disease probability and the level of variance in total liability ( or heritability ) explained by the gene variants . the mean risk difference between cases and non-cases , the net reclassification improvement ( ability to re classify people into high- and low-risk categories ) , a proportion of cases explained by a specific percentile of population at the highest risk ,
the saccharomyces cerevisae RAD3 gene is the homolog of human XPD , an essential gene encoding a DNA helicase of the TFIIH complex involved in both nucleotide excision repair ( NER ) and transcription . the hyper-rec phenotype associated with rad3 strains can be explained as a consequence of persistent single-stranded DNA gaps that are converted to recombinogenic double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) by replication . we mapped 216 unselected genomic alterations throughout the genome including crossovers , gene conversions and deletions and duplications at the IMA2 and HXT11 genes near the left end of chromosome XV . in addition , we found a significant association between the location of these events and regions with elevated gamma-H2AX . a sub-set of spontaneous events in wild-type cells may be initiated by incomplete NER reactions .
a budget proposal to stop the U . S . Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ( CDC ) funding in surveillance and research for mosquito-borne diseases such as dengue and West Nile virus has the potential to leave the country ill-prepared to handle new emerging diseases and manage existing ones . in order to demonstrate the consequences of such a measure , if implemented , we evaluated the impact of delayed control responses to dengue epidemics ( a likely scenario emerging from the proposed CDC budget cut ) in an economically developed urban environment .
the zinc-finger protein CTCF is well studied in vertebrates as an enhancer blocking factor , but only one endogenous binding location for CTCF has been identified in the Drosophila genome , the Fab-8 insulator in the Abdominal-B locus in the Bithorax complex ( BX-C ) . we carried out chromatin immunopurification coupled with genomic microarray analysis to identify CTCF binding sites within representative regions of the aforementioned regions , including the 3-Mb Adh region , , and the Antennapedia complex . our data indicate that the functioning of these insulators involves a common CTCF-dependent mechanism .
the Zaire ebolavirus ( EBOV ) 5′-UTRs have long genomes than most other non-segmented negative-strand RNA viruses due in part to long 5′ and 3′ untranslated regions ( UTRs ) present in the seven viral transcriptional units . however , specific functions have not been assigned to these viral genes . we demonstrated that the uuug was sufficient to initiate translation , is surrounded by a “weak” Kozak sequence and suppressed translation of the primary ORF ( pORF ) , most dramatically in the case of the L uAUG . a recombinant viral polymerase mRNA strongly suppresses translation when placed upstream of a GFP reporter gene , and ablation of each uaug enhanced the translation of porf in a position-dependent manner . in this study , we demonstrate that the 5′ UTR is one of four viral genes to possess upstream AUGs ( u-actin 5′
background : studies of the furious and paralytic forms of canine rabies at the early stage of disease have shown a more rapid viral colonization of the cerebral hemispheres in the animal form , as measured by viral antigen within neuronal cell bodies and viral RNA levels . in this study , a retrospective study was conducted in a cohort of naturally raby infected non-vaccinated dogs that were sacrificed shortly after developing illness.materials and methods : a total of 5 furious , 5 paralytic , and 5 , were taken at different levels of the spinal cord , brain stem , cerebrum . the cytokine-mediated virus transport may be slower in the paralytic form . this difference was even evident when comparing ( 1 ) neurons with similar amounts of antigen , ( 2 ) similar percentages of involved neurons and ( 3 ) anatomic levels that showed 100% positive neurons.results:there was a delay in cell process involvement following cell body involvement , consistent with replication occurring in the cell body region and subsequent transport out to cell processes
14-3-3 proteins are able to bind phosphorylated proteins and were shown to play an undefined role under DNA replication stress . exonuclease 1 ( exo1 ) processes stalled replication forks in checkpoint-defective yeast cells . yeast 14-3–deficient cells fail to induce Mec1–dependent Exo1 hyperphosphorylation and accumulate Exo2–dependent ssDNA gaps at stallled fork , as revealed by electron microscopy . this leads to persistent checkpoint activation and exacerbated recovery defects .
a seven-year cycle of Sindbis virus ( SINV ) outbreaks has been referred to in scientific papers , although the hypothesis is based solely on reported human cases . in the search for a more objective outbreak signal , we evaluated mosquito abundance and SINV prevalence in vector mosquitoes from an endemic area in central Sweden . Obtained isolates were partially sequenced , and the nucleotide sequences analysed using Bayesian maximum clade credibility and median joining network analysis . we found that all isolates belonged to the SINV genotype I genotype . the genetic analysis revealed local maintenance of four SINV-I clades in the river Dalälven floodplains over the years .
transcriptional profiling by microarrays was one of the most popular technologies . one application of this technology is to identify genes that are differentially expressed in response to different environmental conditions . however , whether differential expression is predictive of functional importance has yet to be tested . here we have addressed this expectation by employing Caenorhabditis elegans as a model for the interaction of native soil nematodes or from grassland soils . utilizing transcriptional profiles , we identified candidate genes regulated in response . we show that changes in food source , as can occur in environmental disturbance , can have a large effect on gene expression , with important consequences for fitness in a given bacterial environment .
we carried out a genetic and biochemical study of maize maize CENPC , a key inner kinetochore protein . we show that DNA binding is conferred by a localized region 122 amino acids long , and that the DNA-binding reaction is exquisitely sensitive to single-stranded RNA . the types of RNAs that stabilize DNA binding match in size and characterize the RNA present on kinetochores in vivo . this study suggests that centromeric RNA helps to recruit the inner cytoskeleton of the cytokines by altering its DNA binding characteristics .
we compared 11 different widely-used approaches to phasing human genomes using the publicly available ‘Genome-In-A-Bottle’ phased version of the NA12878 genome as a gold standard . we used metrics that included , among others , switch error rates , haplotype block lengths , the proportion of fully phase-resolved genes , phases accuracy and yield between pairs of SNVs . our comparisons suggest that a hybrid or combined approach that leverages: 1 . either genome-wide sequencing read data or parental genotype data , and 3 . a large reference panel of variant and haplotyp frequencies , provides a fast and efficient way to produce highly accurate phase information from general sequencing reads and constructs or population-level hapotype frequency information obtained through a reference panel .
sooty mangabeys ( SM ) is non-pathogenic despite robust virus replication . we identified a novel SM CCR5 allele containing a two base pair deletion ( 2 ) encoding a truncated molecule that is not expressed on the cell surface and does not support SIV entry in vitro . the allele was present at a 26% frequency in a large SM colony , along with 3% for a CCR424 deletion allele that also abrogates surface expression . a gradient of CCR 5 expression across genotype groups , which was highly significant for CD4+ cells . however , the prevalence of natural SIVsmm infection was not significantly different in animals lacking functional and homozygous wild-type animals .
we have previously shown that global manipulation of insulin signaling , a nutrient-sensing pathway governing investment in survival versus reproduction , affects female sexual attractiveness in the fruit fly , Drosophila melanogaster . here we demonstrate that these effects on attractiveness derive from insulin signals in the fat body and ovarian follicle cells , which signals are integrated by pheromone-producing cells called oenocytes . Interestingly , all investigated tissue-specific insulin signals that changed attractiveness also changed fecundity in the corresponding direction pointing to insulin pathway activity as a reliable link between attractiveness and attractiveness cues , suggesting a competitive relationship with the ovary.
breast cancers that are “triple-negative” for the clinical markers ESR1 , PGR , and HER2 typically belong to the Basal-like molecular subtype . we demonstrate that the combined inactivation of Rb and p53 pathways is sufficient to suppress the physiological cell death of mammary involution and predisposes highly penetrant , metastatic adenocarcinomas . the tumors are poorly differentiated and have histologic features that are common among human Brca1-mutated tumors , including heterogeneous morphology , métaplasia , necrosis . our mouse genetic studies demonstrate that concomitant inactivations of all three pathways are each associated with triple-negative and Basal -like subtypes .
pathogen-associated secretion systems translocate numerous effector proteins into eukaryotic host cells to coordinate cellular processes important for infection . a designation for an effector protein that regulates the function of another effector within the host cell is presented . Legionella LubX protein functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase that hijacks the host proteasome to specifically target the bacterial effectsor protein SidH for degradation . Delayed delivery of LubX to the host cytoplasm leads to the shutdown of sidH in the host cells at later stages of infection , resulting in a sophisticated level of coevolution between eucaryotic cells and L . pneumophila . this demonstrates an advanced level of recombinant coordination of the functions of a cognate effector that functions as a key regulator to temporally coordinate
the inference of regulatory interactions and quantitative models of gene regulation from time-series transcriptomics data has been extensively studied and applied to a range of problems in drug discovery , cancer research , and biotechnology . the application of existing methods is commonly based on implicit assumptions on the biological processes under study . first , the observed changes in gene expression are assumed to be solely due to transcription factors and other specific regulators , while changes in the activity of the gene expression machinery and other global physiological effects are neglected . while convenient in practice , these assumptions are often not valid and bias the reverse engineering process.
background : soil-transmitted helminth ( STH ) infections ( i . e. , ascaris lumbricoides , hookworm , and Trichuris trichiura ) affect more than a billion people . this strategy , however , does not prevent reinfection . we performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to assess patterns and dynamics of STH reinfection after drug treatment.materials and methods : we systematically searched PubMed , ISI Web of Science , EMBASE , Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews , China National Knowledge Infrastructure , WanFang Database , chinese Scientific Journal Database . from 154 studies identified , 51 were included and 24 provided STH infection rates pre- and posttreatment , while 42 reported determinants of predisposition to reinfection.results:the mean age of participants was 26% ( 95% confidence interval ( CI ) : 16–43% )
prompt post-exposure prophylaxis ( PEP ) is essential in preventing the fatal onset of disease in persons exposed to rabies . Increasing accessibility , reducing costs and preventing delays in delivery of PEP should therefore be prioritized . we analyzed different PEP vaccination regimens and evaluated their relative costs and benefits to bite victims and healthcare providers . switching from intramuscular ( IM ) administration to equally efficacious intradermal ( ID ) regimens was shown to result in significant savings in the volume of vaccine required to treat the same number of patients , which could mitigate vaccine shortages , and would dramatically reduce the costs of implementing PEP.
this paper examines the relationship between human infective and non-human T . brucei s l . infection in cattle at village level in Kaberamaido and dokolo districts , Uganda . the sleeping sickness status of the villages had a significant effect with higher odds of infection within cattle from case than from non-case villages for a human infection . this study was undertaken in villages that had reported a case of sleeping sickness in the six months prior to sample collection . however , a higher than average prevalence in a village herd over was associated with significantly higher likelihood of circulating in the village cattle of case villages ( OR: 25 , 95%CI: 1 . 2–520 .
rapamycin ( TOR ) is a conserved protein kinase that regulates growth and metabolism in response to nutrients and growth factors . it is still unclear whether additional targets of this pathway also modulate lifespan . here , we describe a novel role for the hypoxia inducible factor-1 ( HIF-1 ) in modulating lifespan extension by DR in Caenorhabditis elegans . we find that a hif-1 loss-of-function mutant extends lifespan under rich nutrient conditions but fails to show lifespan extension under DR . this deficiency is rescued by tissue-specific expression of egl-9 in specific neurons and muscles .
the unique ability of acetogens to ferment a broad range of substrates renders them ideal candidates for the biotechnological production of commodity chemicals . in particular the ability to grow with H2:CO2 or syngas ( a mixture of H2/CO/CO2 ) makes these microorganisms ideal chassis for sustainable bioproduction . however , advanced design strategies are currently hampered by incomplete knowledge about their physiology and our inability to accurately predict phenotypes . here we describe the reconstruction of a novel genome-scale model of metabolism and macromolecular synthesis ( ME-model ) to gain new insights into the biology of the model aceter Clostridium ljungdahlii .
Arabidopsis thaliana cryptochrome 2 ( CRY2 ) mediates light control of flowering time . in vitro , CIB1 binds to the canonical E-box ( CACGTG , also referred to as G-box ) with much higher affinity than its interaction with non-canonical FT ( flowering Locus T ) DNA sequences . cry2 also interacts with at least CIb5 , in response to blue light , but not in darkness or response to other wavelengths of light . here , we show that cRY2 also plays redundantly in regulating CRY2-dependent flowering , and that they are positive regulators of Cry2 mediated flowering in vivo . more importantly , some of the heterodimers have a higher binding affinity than the CI
enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli ( EHEC ) causes a severe bloody diarrhea following transmission to humans through various means , including contaminated beef and vegetable products , water , or through contact with animals . in many cases , the mechanisms by which these effectors bind to host proteins and disrupt the normal function of intestinal epithelial cells have not been completely characterized . we present evidence that the type III secretion system ( T3SS ) effector binds to the human ribosomal protein S3 ( RPS3 ) , a subunit of nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells ( NF-B ) transcriptional complexes .
high-altitude hypoxia ( reduced inspired oxygen tension due to decreased barometric pressure ) exerts severe physiological stress on the human body . although these responses have been well characterized physiologically , their underlying genetic basis remains unknown . we performed a genome scan to identify genes showing evidence of adaptation to hypoxia . in addition , groups of genes functioning in oxygen metabolism and sensing were examined to test the hypothesis that particular pathways have been involved in genetic adaptation to altitude . applying four population genetic statistics commonly used for detecting signatures of natural selection , we identified selection-nominated candidate genes and gene regions in these two populations ( Andeans and Tibetans ) separately . the Tibetan and Andean patterns of genetic adaptation are largely distinct from one another , with both populations showing evidence for positive natural selection in different genes or gene regions . however , the pattern of variation for this gene differs between the two populations .
Machupo virus ( MACV ) , a new world arenavirus , is the etiological agent of Bolivian hemorrhagic fever . a recombinant chimeric cd#1-GPC expressing glycoprotein from the Candid#1 vaccine strain of JUNV is completely attenuated in a murine model and protects animals from lethal challenge with MACv . we rescued several rMACVs expressing ectodomain of GPC either alone ( MCg1 ) or with the transmembrane domain ( TMD ) of the GPC . in addition , the TMD mutation alone was not sufficient to fully attentuate JUN
background : dengue virus non-structural protein 1 ( NS1 ) has been identified as an early marker for acute dengue , and is typically present between days 1–9 post-onset of illness but following seroconversion it can be difficult to detect in serum . the clinical performance of the Dengue Early Rapid in combination with the commercial IgM/IgG rapid test was evaluated in a retrospective study in Vietnam with 198 acute laboratory-confirmed positive and 100 negative samples . in Vietnam the sensitivity and specificity of the test was 69 . 2% ( 95% CI: 62 .
toll/interleukin-1 receptor ( TIR ) domains in toll-like receptors are essential for initiating and propagating the eukaryotic innate immune signaling cascade . here , we investigate TirS , a Staphylococcus aureus TIR mimic that is part of a novel bacterial invasion mechanism . its ectopic expression inhibited TLR signaling , downregulating the NF-kB pathway through inhibition of TLR2 , TLR4 , and TLR9 . it was associated with lower neutrophil and macrophage activity even though the tirS-mutant and wild-type strains did not differ in bacterial load .
protein modifications play a major role for most biological processes in living organisms . although the enzymes and protein complexes involved in these processes have been extensively studied , only little is known about the biological function of such N-terminal modification events . we analyzed the amino-terminals from proteins extracted from Drosophila Kc167 cells . as the sole true determinant for N-determinal acetylation we could extract the ( X ) PX rule that indicates the prevention of acetic a protein to study the biological relevance of the presence or absence of an acetoyl group , thereby generating a generic assay to probe the functional importance of N-term adsorption . here , we present a straightforward strategy to systematically study the functional relevance of N
exosomes release from virus-infected cells contain a variety of viral and host cellular factors that are able to modulate recipient’s cellular response and result in productive infection of the recipient host . here , we showed that EV71 infection resulted in upregulated exosomal secretion and differential packaging of the viral genomic RNA and miR-146a into exotosomes . we provided evidence showing that miR 146a was preferentially enriched in exomes while the viral RNA was not in infected cell . furthermore , in vivo study showed that the IFN-stimulated gene factors ( ISGs ) , BST-2/tetherin , were involved in regulating EV70-induced upregulation of exosynaptic RNA to replicate in the recipient cells by suppressing type
the interaction between chromatin loops , which can be characterized by three factors—connection pattern , distance between regulatory elements , and communication form , play an important role in determining the level of cell-to-cell variability in gene expression . these quantitative experiments call for a corresponding modeling effect that addresses the question of how changes in these factors affect variability at the expression level in a systematic rather than case-by-case fashion . here we make such an effort , based on a mechanic model that maps three fundamental patterns for two interacting DNA loops into a 4–state model of stochastic transcription .
retroactivity is a phenomenon similar to loading that influences in non-trivial ways the dynamic performance of a module upon connection to other modules . here , we establish an analysis framework for gene transcription networks that explicitly accounts for retroactivity . the internal retroactivity quantifies the effect of intramodular connections on an isolated module's dynamics . all of them have a physical interpretation and can be computed from macroscopic parameters ( dissociation constants and promoter concentrations ) and from the modules' topology . we illustrate implications of internal , scaling , and mixing retroactivity on the behavior of recurrent network motifs , including negative autoregulation , combinatorial regulation , two-gene clocks , the toggle switch , or the single-input motif . this metric can be employed both to evaluate the extent of modularity of natural networks and to establish concrete design guidelines to minimize retroactivity between modules in synthetic systems .
the 5-year survival of non-small cell lung cancer patients can be as low as 1% in advanced stages . for patients with resectable disease , the successful choice of preoperative chemotherapy is critical to eliminate micrometastasis and improve operability . in silico experimentations can suggest the optimal treatment protocol for each patient based on their own multiscale data . a determinant for reliable predictions is the a priori estimation of the drugs’ cytotoxic efficacy on cancer cells for a given treatment .
the mechanisms and treatment of psychomotor retardation , which includes motor and cognitive impairment , are indefinite . the mechanism of psycho motor retardation is characterized by delayed development , severe intellectual disability , muscle hypotonia , and spastic paraplegia , in combination with disturbed thyroid hormone ( TH ) parameters . in order to determine the pathophysiological mechanisms of AHDS , MCT8 knockout mice were intensively studied . although these mice faithfully replicated the abnormal serum TH levels , they failed to exhibit the neurological and behavioral symptoms of hd patients . we also propose that the administration of TH analogs early during embryo development can specifically reduce neuron-specific deficiencies in circuit formation in mct8/ larvae .
we investigate quantitatively the effect of subdividing an asexual population on the time it takes to cross a fitness valley or plateau . we focus on a generic and minimal model that includes only population subdivision into equivalent demes connected by global migration , and does not require significant size changes of the demes , environmental heterogeneity or specific geographic structure . our results demonstrate that subdivision with migration alone can significantly accelerate the crossing of fitness valleys and plateaus in a wide range of parameters extending beyond the optimal window .
the nuclear pore complex ( NPC ) regulates molecular traffic across the nuclear envelope ( NE ) . a coarse-grained model of the NPC structure mimics nucleocytoplasmic transport . the model predicts that the first-passage time of a 15 nm cargo-complex is about 2 . 60 . 13 ms with an inverse Gaussian distribution for statistically adequate number of independent Brownian dynamics simulations . further , almost all eight hydrophobic binding spots on kap- are occupied simultaneously during transport , implying a high degree of permeability to inert cargos , suggesting the defining role of cytoplasms in the selectivity barrier .
staphylococcus aureus is an opportunistic pathogen that colonizes the skin and mucosal surfaces of mammals . here we report the discovery of a novel extracellular fibril structure that promotes biofilm integrity . biochemical and genetic analysis has revealed that these fibers have amyloid-like properties and consist of small peptides called phenol soluble modulins ( PSMs ) . this work suggests the aggregation into soluble PSM-like fibers modulates their biological activity and role in biofilms .
the type II Secretion System ( T2SS ) is a molecular machine that drives the secretion of fully-folded protein substrates across the bacterial outer membrane . a key element in the machinery is the secretin: an integral , multimeric outer membrane protein that forms the secretions pore . we show that three distinct forms of T2S can be distinguished based on the sequence characteristics of their secretin pores .
burkholderia pseudomallei is a mostly saprophytic bacterium , but can infect humans where it causes the difficult-to-manage disease melioidosis . however , it was previously assumed that a ferritin-iron acquisition pathway was used in other bacteria , for example siderophores . our previous discovery of a clinical isolate carrying a large chromosomal deletion missing the entire malleobactin gene cluster encoding the bacterial's major high-affinity siderophore , suggesting that other iron-acquisition systems might contribute to virulence . here , we deleted the major hemin uptake loci , hmu and pyochelin ( pch ) gene clusters in strain 1710b , and revealed a residual endogenous hem quadruple mutant able to utilize hemoglobin and hem suggesting alternate pathways for utilization of these two host iron sources .
praziquantel treatment of Schistosoma mansoni during pregnancy has no effect on immune responses , with the exception of IL-10 responses to SWA , which was higher among infected women than those who did not . in a trial in Uganda , offspring of women treated with placebo during pregnancy were examined for cytokine and antibody responses to sWA and SEA , as well as for T cell expression of FoxP3 , at age five years . of the 1343 children examined , 32 ( 2 . 4% ) had S . mansonis infection at age 5 years based on a single stool sample . we found no evidence that maternal S , IL-13 and il-13 responses to the swiss .
the cell death gene reaper ( rpr ) regulation by the Hox protein Deformed ( dfd ) has been postulated that Hox proteins co-operate with other transcription factors to activate or repress their target genes in a highly context-specific manner in vivo . however , only a few of these factors have been identified . here , we analyze the regulation of the cells death genes reaper by the hox protein deformed . we suggest that local activation of the rrr in the anterior part of the maxillary segment is achieved through a combinatorial interaction of Dfd with at least eight functionally diverse transcriptional regulators on a minimal enhancer . a large number of transcription factors are likely to be directly involved in the proper spatio-temporal expression of Hox targets . therefore , context-dependent combinations of hox proteins and other transcription factor on small , modular Hox response elements ( HREs ) could be responsible for the proper expression of the target genes .
the antiproliferative response to anticancer treatment is the result of concurrent responses in all cell cycle phases , extending over several cell generations . in the proposed experimental/computational approach , the contemporary use of time-lapse live cell microscopy and flow cytometric data supported the computer rendering of the proliferation process through the cell cycle and subsequent generations during/after treatment . the effects of treatments were modelled with modules describing the functional activity of the main pathways causing arrest , repair and cell death in each phase and test models at the complexity level justified by the available data .
the global modulator H-NS targets both core genome and HGT genes and silences gene expression in response to external stimuli such as osmolarity and temperature . in turn , differential regulation of both gene lineages by resident chromosomal H-neoplasmids requires a helper protein : the Hha protein . this protein has evolved to selectively silence both genes and does not interfere with core genome regulation . here we provide evidence that H-Neoviruses discriminates and differentially modulates core and h-NS variants . a key issue is how this newly acquired DNA interacts and integrates in the regulatory networks of the bacterial cell .
HIV-1 vaccines designed to date have failed to elicit neutralizing antibodies ( Nabs ) that are capable of protecting against globally diverse HIV-1 subtypes . one relevant setting to study the development of a strong , cross-reactive Nab response is HIV-1 superinfection ( SI ) , defined as sequential infections from different source partners . here the post-SI Nab responses were examined from 21 Kenyan women collectively exposed to subtype A , C , and D and superinfected after a median time of 1 . we focused on these targets , which include the CD4-binding site , a V1/V2 glycan , the N332 supersite in V3 and the membrane proximal external region of gp41 . these data are consistent with a model in which SI has previously been shown to lead to a broader and more potent response when compared to single infection , but it is unclear whether SI also impacts epitope specificity and
linear mixed models ( LMMs ) have recently gained popularity for modelling population substructure and relatedness in genome-wide association studies . here we compare the performance of several LMM approaches ( and software implementations , including EMMAX , GenABEL , FaST-LMM , Mendel , GEMMA , and MMM ) via their application to a genomic association study of visceral leishmaniasis in 348 Brazilian families comprising 3626 individuals ( 1972 genotyped ) . the implementations differ in precise details of methodology implemented and through various user-chosen options such as the method and number of SNPs used to estimate the kinship ( relatedness ) matrix . we investigate sensitivity to these choices and the success ( or otherwise ) of the approaches in controlling the overall genomic error-rate for both real and simulated phenotypes .
we show that when the composite activity of a local neuronal group exceeds a threshold , its activity pattern , as reflected in the local field potential ( LFP ) occurs without distortion at other cortex sites via fast synaptic transmission . these large-amplitude LFPs extend up to hundreds of milliseconds and mark periods of loss-less spread of temporal and amplitude information much like action potentials at the single-cell level . however , coherence potentials have an additional degree of freedom in the diversity of their waveforms , which provides a high-dimensional parameter for encoding information and allows identification of particular associations . here we recorded ongoing local field pot activity at multiple sites within the cortex of awake monkeys and organotypic cultures of cortex .
the yeast Rab GTPase Sec4p binds Las17/Bee1p ( yeast Wiskott—Aldrich syndrome protein [WASp] ) in a complex with Sla1p and Sla2p during actin patch assembly . after polarized exocytosis to the plasma membrane , sec4p then promotes actin polymerization and triggers compensatory endocytoses , which controls surface expansion and kinetically refines cell polarization . in vitro and in vivo protein binding assays , we show that the Rab pyrene-actin polymerse ( sec4-Q79L ) is a guanine nucleotide exchange factor ( GEF ) Sec2p , overrides actin nucleation , whereas the activating sec4S-Sec4p inhibits nascent sites of endocytic vesicle fusion .
the current study examined the effect of treating Schistosoma mansoni adult worms with miltefosine on exposure of worm surface antigens in vitro.materials and methodsin an indirect immunofluorescence assay , rabbit anti-S . male worm homogenate and anti-s . female worm infection antisera gave strong immunofluoridescence of the schistosome agent of the parasite . in an immunoblotting assay to identify antigenic targets in praziquantel ( PZQ ) , whereby treatment unmasks parasite surface antibodies exposed to the host during infection , suggesting they may have a role in immune protection . the immune-dependent hypothesis we investigated has previously been lent credence with leishmania infections . this study reveals a novel mode of action of mil
polarized trafficking of vesicle-bound membrane proteins gives rise to the distinct molecular composition and functional properties of axons and dendrites . recently , the plus-end-directed motor Myosin Va was shown to play a critical role in targeting of transmembrane proteins to dendritic proteins ; however , surprisingly little is known about the moleclecular processes that mediate polarization of neuronal proteins . here we show that myosine VI plays a vital role in the enrichment of proteins on the surface of rat cortical neurons . a version of Channelrhodopsin 2 that was engineered to bind to Myo
the consensus that complexity begets stability in ecosystems was challenged in the seventies . the approaches assume the existence of a feasible equilibrium , i . e . with positive abundances . however , this key assumption has not been tested . we provide analytical results complemented by simulations which show that equilibrium feasibility vanishes in species rich systems . this result leaves us in the uncomfortable situation in which the existence a feasibility assumed in local stability criteria is far from granted . We extend our analyses by changing interaction structure and intensity , and find that feasibility and stability is warranted irrespective of species richness with weak interactions .
a bacterial pathogen that colonizes the chitinous exoskeleton of zooplankton as well as the human gastrointestinal tract . we report structural studies that reveal that the N-acetylglucosamine binding protein ( GbpA ) possesses an unusual , elongated , four-domain structure , with domains 1 and 4 showing structural homology to chintin binding domains . structural studies show that domain 1 is also crucial for mucin binding and intestinal colonization .
the impact of nuclear erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2 ) activation on human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) infection has not been tested . we show for the first time that , like the type I interferon-induced cellular anti-viral proteins SAMHD1 and MX2 , SFN treatment blocks infection after entry , but before formation of 2-LTR circles . Interestingly however , neither , nor the type of cellular antibodies were upregulated . this is a model in which antiviral activity is mediated through Nrf2-mediated depletion boosted HIV infectivity in primary macrophages but not in primary T cells .
the development of new drugs against Chagas disease is a priority since the currently available medicines have toxic effects , partial efficacy and are targeted against the acute phase of disease . at present , there is no drug to treat the chronic stage . in this study , we have optimized a whole cell-based assay for high throughput screening of compounds that inhibit infection of mammalian cells by Trypanosoma cruzi trypomastigotes . a 2000-compound chemical library was screened using a recombinant T . cruzi ( Tulahuen strain ) expressing -galactosidase . three hits were selected for their high activity against .
establishing the network topologies that can exhibit bistability remains a challenge , in part due to the exceedingly large variety of gene regulatory networks ( GRNs ) that exist for even a small number of components . we find that there exist reaction rate constants leading to bistability in 90% of these GRN models , including several circuits that do not contain any of the TF cooperativity commonly associated with bistable systems , and the majority of which could only be identified as bistable through an original subnetwork-based analysis . a topological sorting of the two-gene family of networks based on the presence or absence of biochemical reactions reveals eleven minimal bistable networks that can be formed by two transcription factor-coding genes and their associated proteins ( assuming only the most elementary biochemical processes ) .
despite the absence of an adaptive immune system in murine models , lymphatic dilatation and dysfunction occur in filarial infections , although severe irreversible lymphedema and elephantiasis appears to require an intact adaptive immune response in human infections . the aim of this study was to investigate the mechanisms underlying the pathology seen in lymphatic filariasis . a retrospective study of the literature was conducted on the role of live parasites and their antigens in the lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic differentiation in human lymphatic endothelial cells .
plant-pathogenic Xanthomonas bacteria secrete transcription activator-like effectors ( TALEs ) into host cells , where they act as transcriptional activators on plant target genes to support bacterial virulence . in this paper , we propose a novel approach for TALE target prediction to identify potential virulent targets . our approach accounts for recent findings concerning TALE targeting , including frame-shift binding by repeats of aberrant lengths , and the flexible strand orientation of target boxes relative to the transcription start of the downstream target gene .
the evolution of new gene networks is a primary source of genetic innovation that allows bacteria to explore and exploit new niches , including pathogenic interactions with host organisms . we propose that the ability of OmpR to recruit additional genes to its regulon arises from its modest requirements for specificity in its DNA targets with its preference for relaxed DNA allowing it to cooperate with DNA-topology-based allostery to modulate transcription in response to acid stress .
two-component signaling systems are ubiquitous in bacteria , Archaea and plants and play important roles in sensing and responding to environmental stimuli . to propagate a signaling response the typical system employs a sensory histidine kinase that phosphorylates a Receiver ( REC ) domain on a conserved aspartate ( Asp ) residue , it remains unclear as to how many of these divergent REC domains exist , what their functional roles are and how they are regulated in the absence of the conserved Asp.
in this work we have performed cell cycle analysis of cells that contain a surplus of ATP-DnaA and asked whether initiation then occurs earlier . it does not . cells with more than a 50% increase in the concentration of adipose , which showed no changes in timing of replication . we also investigated the in vivo roles of datA dependent inactivation ( DDAH ) and the Dnaa-binding protein DiaA . the result indicates that compromised cell cycle machines perform in a less robust manner .
the rat demyelination ( dmy ) mutation serves as a unique model system to investigate the maintenance of myelelin , because it provoke severe myelan breakdown in the central nervous system ( CNS ) after normal postnatal completion of the myelineation . here , we report the molecular characterization of this mutation and discuss the possible pathomechanisms underlying deryelineination.resultsby positional cloning , a G-to-A transition 177 bp downstream of exon 3 of the Mrs2 ( MRS2 magnesium homeostasis factor ( Saccharomyces cerevisiae ) gene , generated a novel splice acceptor site which resulted in functional inactivation of the mutant allele . a transgenic rescue with wild-type Mrs2-cDNA validated our findings .
background : leishmania amazonensis is an important disease that affects 12 million people in 88 countries , with 2 million new cases every year . one interesting issue rarely analyzed is how host immune response affects Leishmania phenotype and virulence . we compared proteomes of amastigotes isolated from BALB/c and a nude mouse.methods:the athymic nude mice may resemble patients with diffuse cutaneous leishmansis , considered T-cell hyposensitive or anergic to oxidative/nitrosative stress and proteases.results:in the 44 differentially expressed spots , there were proteins related to known Leishman s antigens.conclusion:aiming to study the effect of host immune system on leishma proteins we analyzed proteome compared with amasigotes , isolated from a group of mice .
background : to gain a more detailed picture of cryptococcosis in Thailand , a retrospective study of 498 C . neoformans and 13 C. gattii isolates has been conducted . the majority of the strains ( 68.9% ) were isolated from males ( mean age of 37. 97 years ) . in addition , the molecular types VNII ( 94. 8% ; 94 . 66% of the clinical and 98 . 10% of the veterinary isolates were from HIV patients.results:a total of 485 ( 83 and 29 ) strains were isolate from clinical , environmental and veterinary sources , respectively . most of the isolates are ST7 = VGIIb , which is identical to the less virulent minor Vancouver island outbreak genotype
oral ivermectin ( MOX ) , with more advantageous pharmacological profiles may be a promising alternative . we evaluated treatment efficacies by assessing mite count , clinical lesions , pruritus and ELISA-determined anti-S . scabiei IgG antibodies reductions . at day 14 post-treatment , all four MOX-treated but only two IVM-treated pigs were mite-free . MOX efficacy was 100% and remained unchanged until study-end ( compared to 62% ( range 26–100% ) for IVM . plasma and skin pharmacokinetic profiles were determined . clinical scabies lesions were completely disappeared in all , thereby covering the mite’s entire life cycle and enabling long-lasting efficaciacy .
the type III interferon ( IFN ) receptor IL-28R is abundantly expressed in the respiratory tract and has been shown essential for host defense against some viral pathogens , however no data are available concerning its role in the innate immune response to bacterial pathogen . improved bacterial clearance correlated with reduced lung pathology and a reduced ratio of pro- vs anti-inflammatory cytokines in the airway . in human epithelial cells iFN inhibited miR-21 via STAT3 resulting in upregulation of PDCD4 , a protein known to promote inflammatory signaling . however , in vivo 18 hours following infection with either pathogen in the lung of wild type , mir-21 was significantly reduced , and clearance of these bacteria from the lung was significantly increased compared to controls .
we demonstrate advanced pattern discrimination and continuous learning in a network of spiking neurons with multiple plastic layers . the network utilized both reward modulated and non-reward modulated spike time dependent plasticity ( STDP ) and implemented multiple mechanisms for homeostatic regulation of synaptic efficacy , including heterosynaptic plasticity , gain control , output balancing , activity normalization of rewarded STDP and hard limits on synaptical strength . we found that addition of a hidden layer of neurons employing non-rewarded high - performance stimuli created neurons that responded to the specific combinations of inputs and thus performed basic classification of the input patterns . despite the absence of labeled training data , discrimination between rewarding patterns and the patterns designated as punishing , the network was capable of learning simple foraging tasks . this study predicts a critical set of properties which were sufficient to solve a complex foraging task involving pattern classification and decision making .
genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) have been fruitful in identifying disease susceptibility loci for common and complex diseases . here we propose that sophisticated machine-learning approaches with a large ensemble of markers may improve the performance of disease risk assessment . we applied a support vector machine ( SVM ) algorithm on a GWa dataset generated on the Affymetrix genotyping platform for type 1 diabetes ( T1D ) and optimized a risk assessment model with hundreds of markers . subsequently tested this model on an independent Illumina-genotyped dataset with imputed genotypes , as well as a separate , resulting in area under ROC curve ( AUC ) of 0 . in contrast , poor performance was achieved when limited to dozens of known susceptible loci in the SVM model or logistic regression model .
background : leishmaniasis is endemic in 98 countries with an estimated 350 million people at risk and approximately 2 million cases annually . Brazil is one of the most severely affected countries . we applied Bayesian geostatistical negative binomial models to analyze reported incidence data of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis in Brazil covering a 10-year period ( 2001–2010 ) . particular emphasis was placed on spatial and temporal patterns . the models were fitted using integrated nested Laplace approximations to perform fast approximate bayesian inference.results:the predicted number of cases in 2010 were 30 , 189 ( standard deviation [SD]: 7 , 676 ( SD: 288 ) for cutaneous , and 4 , 889 ( SD = 288).conclusions:for both types of leishmenia , precipitation and socioeconomic proxies were identified as important risk factors .
IKAROS is a critical regulator of hematopoietic cell fate . in collaboration with the Nucleosome Remodeling and Deacetylase complex , it promotes gene repression and activation . it remains to be clarified how IkAROS can support transcription activation while being associated with the HDAC-containing complex NuRD . here , we demonstrate that nuRD and P-TEFb are assembled in a complex that can be recruited to specific genes by IKarOS . we show that a mutant that is unable to bind PP1 can sustain gene expression and facilitates transcription elongation by transferring the Protein Phosphatase 1 , an Ikro - binding protein and protein activator , to CDK9 .
the translocase of the outer membrane ( TOM ) is common to all forms of mitochondria , but an unexpected diversity of subunits between eukaryotic lineages has been predicted . however , experimental knowledge is limited to a few organisms , and so far , it remains unsettlettle whether the triplet-pore or the twin-pore structure is the generic form of TOM complex . here , we demonstrate that the highly divergent -barrel T . vaginalis TOM ( TvTom ) 40-2 forms a translocation channel to conduct hydrogenosomal protein import . a third subunit , Tom22-like protein , has a short cis domain and a conserved Tom22 transmembrane segment but lacks an unconventional skull-like shape . our phylogenetic profiling revealed the presence of four tail-anchored ( TA ) proteins .
background : genetic factors play an important role in the etiology of both sporadic and familial breast cancer . we aimed to discover novel genetic susceptibility loci for breast cancer.materials and methods : we conducted a four-stage genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) in 19 , 091 cases and 20 , 606 controls of East-Asian descent including Chinese , Korean , and Japanese women.results:after analyzing 690 , 947 cases and 2 , 324 controls , we evaluated 5 , 365 SNPs for replication in 3 - 972 cases and 3 , 852 controls . the top 22 SNP were investigated in up to 17 , 423 additional subjects . adjusted odds ratios ( 95% confidence intervals ) were 0 . 85 . 94 ) and 8 . 80 for the A/G and A/A genotypes , respectively compared with the genotype G/G genotype .
we present a novel technique to assess the confidence levels of interactions in complex networks of protein-protein interactions ( PPIs ) obtained from experimental studies . we use it for predicting new interactions and thus for guiding future biological experiments . this technique achieves specificity of 85% and sensitivity of 90% . Using our approach , we predict 251 interactions in the human PPI network , a statistically significant fraction of which correspond to protein pairs sharing common GO terms . the data and Matlab code implementing the methods are freely available from the web site : http://www.kuchaev.com/Denoising .
buruli ulcer ( BU ) , caused by infection with Mycobacterium ulcerans , is a chronic necrotizing human skin disease associated with the production of the cytotoxic macrolide exotoxin mycolactone . although histopathological analyses of advanced BU lesions have demonstrated a mainly extracellular localization of the toxin producing acid fast bacilli , there is growing evidence for an early intra-macrophage growth phase of M . ulcerans infections . this has led us to investigate whether interferon- might play an important role in early host immune defense against BU.
the mosquito Aedes aegypti , vector of dengue , chikungunya and yellow fever viruses , is an important target of vector control programs in tropical countries . most mosquito surveillance programs are still based on the traditional household larval surveys , but the availability of new trapping devices . we report the results of a multicentric entomological survey using four types of traps , including the larval survey , to compare the indices generated by these different surveillance tools in terms of their sensitivity to detect mosquito density variation .
we develop a novel systematic analysis of the dynamics of arbitrarily small networks composed of homogeneous populations of excitatory and inhibitory firing-rate neurons . this qualitative change of the neural dynamics is a finite-size effect of the network , that reveals qualitative and previously unexplored differences between mesoscopic cortical circuits and their mean-field approximation . we find that for strong inhibition these networks give rise to very complex dynamics , caused by the formation of multiple branching solutions of the neuronal dynamics equations that emerge through spontaneous symmetry-breaking . in this case , major differences between the mean-feld approxion and the real behavior of the networks can arise , and this prevents us to make progress in understanding neural dynamics at these intermediate scales .
a major problem in biology is to understand how complex tissue shapes may arise through growth . in many cases this process involves preferential growth along particular orientations raising the question of how these orientations are specified . one view is that orientations can be specified independently of stresses through molecular signalling ( polarity-based system ) . this process has recently been explored through computational modelling . here we develop and apply a polarized Tissue framework which we call the Growing Polarised Tissue ( GPT ) framework . we demonstrate the value of the GPT-framework for understanding morphogenesis by applying it to a growing Snapdragon flower and indicate how the underlying hypotheses may be tested by computational simulation . resulting growth depends on how specified growth patterns interact within the constraints of mechanically connected tissue .
the orthologous gene in the mouse , Smoc1 , shows site- and stage-specific expression during eye , limb , craniofacial , and somite development . this gene-trap results in highly penetrant hindlimb post-axial oligosyndactyly in homozygous mutant animals ( SMOC-1 ) . we also report a targeted pre-conditional mutation of SMoc-1 that reduces mRNA to 10% of wild-type levels .
the identification and analysis of candidate Salm/Salr target genes , and the analysis of their functions , are critical steps towards understanding the genetic control of growth and patterning of the Drosophila wing imaginal disc by the Decapentaplegic ( Dpp ) pathway . we have compared the expression profile of salm/salr knockdown wing discs with control discs in microarray experiments . to identify candidate , we have studied by in situ hybridization the expression pattern of the genes whose mRNA levels varied significantly . a fraction of them , a requirement for the development of this epithelial tissue . the identification of direct Salm and Salr targets includes genes that expression is turned off and genes which expression is positively regulated by the Spalt proteins in the wing
we report a new form of adaptation in a first-order auditory interneuron of crickets . we characterize the response of the AN2 neuron to amplitude-modulated sound stimuli and find that adaptation shifts the stimulus–response curves toward higher stimulus intensities , with a time constant of 1 . 5 s for adaptation and recovery . the spike responses were thus reduced for low-intensity sounds . here , we address the question whether adaptation leads to an improvement of the signal's representation and compare the experimental results with the predictions of two competing hypotheses : infomax , which predicts that information conveyed about the entire signal range should be maximized , and selective coding , whereas “background” signals should be selectively suppressed .
spirochetes are confined to the midgut lumen where they transform into an unusual morphotype ( round bodies ) during the later stages of the blood meal . we show that round body formation is rapidly reversible , and in vitro appears to be attributable , in part , to reduced levels of Coenzyme A disulfide reductase , which among other functions , provides NAD+ for glycolysis . herein , we demonstrate that RpoS-dependent gene expression is prerequisite for the transmission of nymphs .
the mitochondrial 2-Cys peroxiredoxin ( mTXNPx ) null mutants were found to be unable to thrive in a murine model of infection . mtxnpx were also avirulent when exposed to oxidants added exogenously or generated by macrophages during phagocytosis ex vivo . this premise is based on the observation that the enzyme is able to suppress the thermal aggregation of citrate synthase in vitro , a phenotype reminiscent of organisms lacking specific chaperone genes . in this report , the functional relevance of one of such enzyme was investigated along the leishmania infantum life cycle .
a broad applicable method to analyze how microbes catabolize plant polysaccharides that integrate carbohydrate-active enzyme ( CAZyme ) assays , RNA sequencing ( RNA-seq ) , and anaerobic growth screening . we apply this method to study how the bacterium Clostridium phytofermentans ferments plant biomass components including glucans and mannans . this method reveals how this bacterial responds to polyscharides by up-regulating specific groups of cAZymes , transporters , enzymes to metabolize the constituent sugars . here we demonstrate a broadly applicable method that integrates a bacterial - reactive enzyme ( cas - saline-specific RNA sequence ( nass ) to analyze the catalytic mechanisms of the enzymes acting on the same substrate with different catalysis mechanisms .
we investigated a recent outbreak of glanders in Bahrain by applying high resolution genotyping ( multiple locus variable number of tandem repeats , MLVA ) and comparative whole genome sequencing to B . mallei isolated from infected horses and a camel . these results were compared to samples obtained from an outbreak in the united arab Emirates in 2004 , and further placed into a broader phylogeographic context based on previously published B - mallei data . the samples from the outbreak in Bahrain separated into two distinct clusters suggesting a complex epidemiological background and evidence for the involvement of multiple . a similar geographic origin that has yet to be identified for the infecting strains .
ethylene inhibits the rate-limiting step of auxin biosynthesis via indole-3-pyruvic acid ( IPA ) to confer auxin levels that are sub-optimal for root cell elongation , as suggested by our observations . however , the phenotypes of the ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic-acid ( ACC ) , a downstream ethylene-signaling component homolog mutant , Bd ethylene insensitive 2-like 1 , which also displays a hypomorphic Bdtar2l allele . a promoter T-DNA insertion in the monocotyledon Brachypodium distachyon TAR2-LIKE gene ( bdTAR2L ) severely down-regulates expression , suggesting reduced tryptophan aminotransferase activity in this mutant . this enzymatic expression of yUCCA genes is increased in the mutants compared to Arabidopsis taa1/tar mutants
the 3D organization of chromosomes is crucial for regulating gene expression and cell function . the main challenges are therefore to develop adequate models and simulation methods to investigate properly the multi spatio-temporal scales of such macromolecules . here , we proposed a generic strategy to develop efficient coarse-grained models for self-avoiding polymers on a lattice . accounting accurately for the polymer entanglement length and the volumic density , our simulation scheme not only captures the steady-state structural and dynamical properties of the system but also tracks the same dynamics at different coarse-graining .
toxoplasma is an obligate intracellular parasite that replicates in mammalian cells within a parasitophorous vacuole ( PV ) that does not fuse with any host organelles . the parasite is capable of accessing lipid droplets ( LD ) stored in host LD and incorporates these lipids into its own membranes and LD.this study highlights the reliance of Toxophplasma on host lipid exploitation for its intracellular development and its capability in scavenging neutral lipid drops from host l , ubiquitous fat storage organelles and lipid content release . here , we examined the exploitation of host phospholipase A2 in host cells that are depleted of LD or impaired in fatty acid catabolism .
the BMP signaling pathway has a conserved role in dorsal-ventral axis patterning during embryonic development . in Drosophila , graded BMP signals are transduced by the Mad transcription factor and opposed by the Brinker repressor . we identify multiple new BMP target genes , including positive and negative regulators of EGF signaling . this study combines RNA-seq with Mad and Brinkers -bound transcriptional network to decipher the resulting expression domain , and find widespread binding of insulator proteins to the Mad and brinker-bound genomic regions .
the mitochondrial protein repertoire varies depending on the cellular state . protein component modifications caused by mitochondrial DNA depletion are related to a wide range of human diseases ; however , little is known about how how nuclear-encoded mitochondrial proteins ( mt proteome ) changes under such dysfunctional states . in this study , we investigated the systemic alterations of 0 mitochondria by using network analysis of gene expression data . by modularizing the quantified proteomics data into protein functional networks , systemic properties of mitochondrial dysfunction were analyzed . we found that up-regulated and down-regulated proteins were organized into two predominant subnetworks that exhibited distinct biological processes . the down regulated network modules are involved in typical mitochondrial functions , while up-regulation proteins are responsible for mmtDNA repair and regulation of m
the dissociation mechanism of the thioredoxin ( Trx ) mixed disulfide complexes is unknown and has been debated for more than twenty years . as a key model , the complex between Trx and its endogenous substrate , arsenate reductase ( arsC ) , was used . in this structure , a Cys29Trx-Cys89ArsC intermediate disulfuride is formed by the nucleophilic attack of Cys32trx in oxidized ArsC.
mRNA and sCR1 levels were measured by multiplex PCR-SSP in 213 leprosy patients ( 47% multibacillary ) and 297 controls . the most common recombinant haplotype harboring intron 21 and rs3737002*T in exon 26 ( encoding p . 1408Met of the York Yka+ antigen ) presented twice higher susceptibility to the disease ( OR = 2 . 43 , p = 0 . 017 ) , possibly by enhancing parasite phagocytosis and inflammation . we investigated soluble scr1 levels in a case-control study with brazilian lesions . mrs3849266*T was measured by qPCR , in up to 80 samples . furthermore , there was an inverse correlation between the levels of srs12034383*G allele , which was associated with higher gene expression , probably increasing internalization of the parasite
we have developed a bioinformatics system for eliminating contamination as well as low-complexity genomic sequences in the draft genomes of eukaryotic pathogens . to address this problem , we applied this software to identify and remove human , bacterial , archaeal , and viral sequences present in a comprehensive database of all sequenced eugenomic pathogen genomes , which was used for diagnosis increases the risk of falsely identifying the wrong pathogen . the new database provides better sensitivity than one using the original genomes while offering a dramatic reduction in false positives.
objectivethe aim of the Stockholm Atherosclerosis Gene Expression ( STAGE ) study was to determine whether there are functionally associated genes ( rather than individual genes ) important for coronary artery disease ( CAD ) development . two-way clustering was used on 278 transcriptional profiles of liver , skeletal muscle , and visceral fat and atherosclerotic and unaffected arterial wall ( n = 40/tissue ) isolated from CAD patients . the first step , across all mRNA signals in each tissue , resulted in a total of 60 tissue clusters . in the second phase , 27 genes in the two clusters were confirmed . a second validation step was used to validate the association of these clusters with coronary atheroserosclerosis gene expression profiles.remarkably , in one cluster ( 55/54 ) relating to carotid stenosis ( P = 0 . 00015 ) and one viscerotic lesion ( 49/48 ) cluster segregated the patients into two groups that differed
we show that human visual perception is constantly shaped by two contrasting forces exerted by sensory adaptation and past decisions . in a series of experiments , we used multilevel modeling and cross-validation approaches to investigate the impact of previous stimuli and decisions on behavioral reports during adjustment and forced-choice tasks . our results revealed that each perceptual report is permeated by opposite biases from a hierarchy of serially dependent processes : Low-level adaptation repels perception away from previous stimulus , whereas decisional traces attract perceptually toward the recent past . we propose a unified account of serial dependence in which functionally distinct mechanisms , operating at different stages , promote the differentiation and integration of visual information over time .
we show that , with respect to a very diverse group of aquatic animals , a mechanically optimal method of swimming with elongated fins has evolved independently at least eight times in both vertebrate and invertebrate swimmers across three different phyla . here , we hypothesize that the optimal specific wavelength ( OSW ) maximizes the force generated by the body , which also maximizes swimming speed . we suggest reasons for its repeated emergence through evolution . if we take the length of an undulation along an animal’s fin during swimming and divide it by the mean amplitude of undulations along the fin length , the result is consistently around twenty .
human papillomaviruses ( HPVs ) are DNA viruses associated with major human cancers . the infectious life cycle is closely linked to the differentiation state of the stratified epithelium it infects , with progeny virus only made in the terminally differentiating suprabasal compartment . it has long been recognized that HPV must first establish its infection within the basal layer of stratified , but why this is the case has not been understood . here , we used chemical biology approaches to reveal that cell cycle progression through mitosis is critical for HPV infection . we conclude that host cells need to pass through early prophase for successful onset of transcription of the HPV encapsidated genes . utilizing infectious HPV16 particles containing the intact viral genome , G1-synchronized human keratinocytes as hosts , and early viral gene expression as a readout for infection , the recipient cell must enter M phase for infection to take place .
syndromic orofacial clefting is amongst the most common of birth defects , with both genetic and environmental components . although numerous studies have been undertaken to investigate the complexities of the genetic etiology of this heterogeneous condition , this factor remains incompletely understood . here , we describe mutations in the HYAL2 gene as a cause of a smyndromic , and define the first molecular cause of human cor triatriatum sinister and hearing loss , identified in a proportion of Hyal2-/- mice , were also found as incompletely penetrant features in affected humans and mice .
the mechanisms of hypoxic injury to the developing human brain are poorly understood , despite being a major cause of chronic neurodevelopmental impairment . recent work in the invertebrate Caenorhabditis elegans has shown that hypoxia causes discrete axon pathfinding errors in certain interneurons and motorneurons . however , it is unknown whether developmental hypoxia would have similar effects in a vertebrate nervous system .
apoptosis occurs in the majority of embryonic cells that had not been infected prior to antibiotic treatment . however , little is known concerning the basis for this mutualistic relationship . here we demonstrate using whole mount confocal microscopy that an immediate response to Wolbachia depletion is extensive apex in the adult germline , and in the somatic cells of the embryos , microfilariae and fourth-stage larvae ( L4 ) . we demonstrate that a cellular mechanism to account for the sustained reductions in microfilarial loads and interruption of transmission that occurs prior to macrofilaricidal activity following antibiotic therapy of filarial nematodes , which are sustained for several months until the premature death of the adult worms .
swine are proposed as a “mixing vessel” for generating reassortants of avian and mammalian influenza A viruses that could be of risk to mammals , including humans . however , how a transmissible reasortant emerges in a group of co-housed pigs are not well understood . a genome analysis of 571 isolates recovered from nasal wash samples and respiratory tract tissues of a pig group identified 30 distinct genotypes of reassortant viruses shed by the pig . genome analyses of the respiratory tract tissue samples of neopigs ( influenza-seronegative , avians H1N1 IAV–infected , and s
the saccharomyces cerevisiae polo-like kinase Cdc5 promotes adaptation to the DNA damage checkpoint , in addition to its numerous roles in mitotic progression . the process of adaptation occurs when cells are presented with persistent or irreparable DNA damage and escape the cell-cycle arrest imposed by the DNA damaged checkpoint.aimto pinpoint the step in the checkpoint pathway at which Cddc5, we overexpressed CDC5 from the GAL1 promoter in damaged cells and examined key steps in checkpoint activation individually . we conclude that high levels of CDC 5 modulate the ability of a checkpoint to attenuate the gene . to pinpoint the steps leading to Rad53 activation , we overexpression of cdc5.conclusionsthe checkpoint is dose-dependent for adaptation and that its overexpression promotes faster adaptation , indicating that higher levels of Cd
we combine neuromechanistic modeling and psychoacoustic experiments to study these persistent alternations and to characterize the effects of manipulating stimulus parameters . Unlike many phenomenological models with abstract , percept-specific competition and fixed inputs , our network model comprises neuronal units with sensory feature dependent inputs that mimic the pulsatile-like A1 responses to tones in the ABA- triplets . we predict with the model that manipulating the frequency difference between tones A and B should affect the dominance durations of the stronger percept , the one dominant a larger fraction of time , more than those of the weaker percept
recent interest in male-based sterile insect technique ( SIT ) and incompatible insect technique to control Aedes albopictus populations has revealed the need for an economical , rapid diagnostic tool for determining dispersion and mating success of sterilized males in the wild . previous reports from other insects indicated rhodamine B , a thiol-reactive fluorescent dye , administered via sugar-feeding can be used to stain the body tissue and seminal fluid of insects . here , we report on the adaptation of this technique for male Ae . aegypti to allow for rapid assessment of competitiveness during field releases .
the kinetics of boophilin interaction with these enzymes , how it modulates platelet function , and whether it inhibits thrombosis in vivo have not been determined . utilizing amidolytic assays and surface plasmon resonance experiments , we have demonstrated that Boophilin behaves as a classical , non-competitive inhibitor of thrombin with respect to small chromogenic substrates by a mechanism dependent on both exosite-1 and catalytic site , preventing elastase-mediated cleavage of Tissue Factor Pathway Inhibitor ( TFPI ) . in addition , Boophiline abrogates cathepsin G- and plasmin-induced platelet aggregation and partially affects carotid artery occlusion and promotes bleeding according to the tail transection method .
in mammals , dosage compensation is achieved by doubling expression of X-linked genes in both sexes , together with X inactivation in females . up-regulation of the active X chromosome may be controlled by DNA sequence–based and/or epigenetic mechanisms that double the X output potentially in response to autosomal factor ( s ) . to determine whether X expression is adjusted depending on ploidy , we used expression arrays to compare x-linked and autosomals in human triploid cells . however , the unbalanced X:autosome expression ratios that we observed could contribute to the abnormal phenotypes associated with triploidy.resultsin triploid cell with one active x and higher ( 1 . 32–1 . 4 ) in triploid versus diploid cells with two active - X's we observed that a small subset ( 7% ) of genes had expression levels apparently proportional to the number of
the opportunistic human fungal pathogen , Candida albicans , undergoes morphological and transcriptional adaptation in the switch from commensalism to pathogenicity . although previous gene-knockout studies have identified many factors involved in this transformation , it remains unclear how these factors are regulated to coordinate the switch . investigating morphogenetic control by post-translational phosphorylation has generated important regulatory insights into this process , especially focusing on coordinated control by the cyclin-dependent kinase Cbk1 , in a role distinct from its conserved function in cell cycle progression .
egress of newly assembled herpesvirus particles from infected cells is a highly dynamic process involving the host secretory pathway working in concert with viral components . we developed a live-cell fluorescence microscopy method to visualize the final transport and exocytosis of pseudorabies virus particles in non-polarized epithelial cells . this method is based on total internal reflection fluorescent virus particles near the plasma membrane , and takes advantage of a virus-encoded pH-sensitive probe to visualize particle motion .
the variants of human influenza virus have caused , and continue to cause , substantial morbidity and mortality . timely and accurate assessment of their impact on human death is invaluable for influenza planning but presents a substantial challenge , as current approaches rely mostly on intensive and unbiased influenza surveillance . in this study , by proposing a novel host-virus interaction model , we have established a positive correlation between the excess mortalities caused by viral strains of distinct antigenicity and their antigenic distances to their previous strains for each type of seasonal influenza viruses . rapid estimation of influenza mortality burden for new seasonal strains should help formulate a cost-effective response for influenza control and prevention .
phagolysosome-like Parasitophorous Vacuoles ( PVs ) of infected mammalian host cells of the genus leishmania alternate between flagellated , elongated extracellular promastigotes found in insect vectors , and round-shaped amastogates enclosed in phagocytes of fetus . to determine if PVs of these Leishmania species can fuse with each other , mouse macrophages in culture were injected with nonfluorescent L . amazonensis and , 48 h later , superinfected with fluorescent or fluorescent . fusion was investigated by time-lapse image acquisition of living cells and inferred from the colocalization of parasites of the two species in the same PVs.resultsin these cells , monoclonal , unfused PVs were destroyed - differentiated into proliferating amastigotes . the results indicate that PVs differ in their ability to fuse with the PVs that did not fuse with
we have focused attention on the insulin receptors ( SjIRs ) of Schistosoma japonicum , which we have previously cloned and partially characterised . we now show , by biolayer Interferometry , that human insulin can bind the recombinant ( r ) subdomain ( insulin binding domain ) in adult schistosomes produced using the Drosophila S2 protein expression system . further , a significant decrease in glucose uptake was observed in the luciferase controls . in vaccine/challenge experiments , we found that rsjLD1 and rSjLD2 depressed female growth , intestinal granuloma density and faecal egg production in adult S . japonica in mice presented with a low dose challenge infection . our results show that , in addition to their reduced transcription , the transcript levels of other important downstream genes within the insulin pathway , associated with glucose metabolism and glucose metabolism were also impacted substantially .
lentivirus nef is required for sustained virus replication in vivo and accelerated progression to AIDS . while exploring the mechanism by which Nef increases the infectivity of cell-free virions , we investigated a functional link between Nef and Env . since we failed to detect an effect of Nef on the quantity of virion-associated Env, we searched for qualitative changes by examining whether Nef alters HIV-1 sensitivity to agents that target distinct features of TMgp41 . in contrast , Nef conferred as much as 50-fold resistance to 2F5 and 4E10 , two potent neutralizing monoclonal antibodies ( nAbs ) that target the membrane proximal external region ( mPER ) of t20 , and other reagents targeting gp120 . this activity requires Nef myristoylation , but it is genetically separable from other Nef functions such as the ability to enhance virus infected features of Env.
the RNA polymerase II ( Pol II ) is a eukaryotic enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of the messenger RNA using a DNA template . despite numerous biochemical and biophysical studies , it remains elusive whether the “secondary channel” is the only route for NTP to reach the active site of the enzyme or if the “main channel” could be an alternative . since diffusion routes of the nucleoside triphosphate substrate through the main channel might overlap with the TB region , gaining structural information of the full transcription bubble is still unknown . in this study , we have built a structural model of pol II with a complete transcription bubble based on multiple sources of existing structural data and used Molecular Dynamics simulations together with structural analysis to shed light on the full TB .
background : visual object recognition and sensitivity to image features are largely influenced by contextual inputs . we study influences by contextual bars on the bias to perceive or infer the presence of a target bar , rather than on the sensitivity of image features.materials and methods : human observers judged from a briefly presented stimulus whether the target bar has a weaker or missing input contrast at the target location with or without a context of other bars . a Bayesian model of visual inference is shown to account for the data well , illustrating that the context influences the perception in two ways : ( 1 ) biasing observers' prior belief that the target should be present according to visual grouping principles , and ( 2 ) biased observers to perceive no target.results:the context does not influence the perceived target contrast despite its influence on the biased to perceive the target's presence . the context can perceptually group well with the would-be target .
the lectin-like bacteriotoxic proteins , identified in several plant-associated bacteria , are able to selectively kill closely related species , including several phytopathogens , such as Pseudomonas putida , but so far their mode of action remains unrevealed . the crystal structure of llpABW , a prototype lectine-like protein from a plant -associated bactericidal bacteridal protein , revealed that the N-domain determines target specificity and specificity . a bacterial - binding clonal -hairpin extension , was assembled from two structurally similar domains that evolved separately towards dedicated functions in target recognition and bactological activity .
the genomic GC-content of bacteria varies dramatically , from less than 20% to more than 70% . this variation is generally ascribed to differences in the pattern of mutation between bacteria . here we test this hypothesis by examining patterns of synonymous polymorphism using datasets from 149 bacterial species . we find a large excess of synonymous GCAT mutations over ATGC mutations segregating in all but the most AT-rich bacteria , across a broad range of phylogenetically diverse species.
background : the expansion of CAG/CTG repeats is responsible for many diseases , including Huntington's disease ( HD ) and myotonic dystrophy 1 . the mechanisms underlying repeat instability are complex , and it remains unclear whether chromatin structure and/or transcription contribute to somatic CAG instability in vivo.objectives:to address these issues , we investigated the relationship between chromatine structure and transcription at the HD locus using the R6/1 and R6/2 HD transgenic mouse lines . these mice express a similar transgene , albeit integrated at a different site and recapitulate HD tissue-specific instability . we show that instability rates are increased in r6/2 tissues as compared to matched-samples.results:the levels of elongating mRNA and H3K4 trimethylation were increased in the striatum and not in the cerebellum , two tissues showing very different cag instability levels .
research on Neglected Tropical Diseases ( NTDs ) has increased in recent decades , and significant need-gaps in diagnostic and treatment tools remain . we aim to identify and map NTD research networks in Germany and their partners abroad to enable an informed and transparent evaluation of German contributions to NTD Research . from 26 , 833 publications from around the world that addressed 11 diseases , we identified 1 , 187 ( 4 . 4% ) with at least one German author affiliation , but we processed 972 publications for the five most published-about diseases . our findings contribute to the prioritisation of efforts in German research at a time of impending local and global policy decisions , particularly in low- and middle-income countries , which were less involved in collaborations .
a mathematical model was developed to predict the temporal variations in abundance of non-domiciliated vectors inside houses . Demographic parameters were estimated by fitting the model to two years of field data from the Yucatan peninsula , Mexico . a predictive value of the model was tested on an independent data set before simulations examined the efficacy of control strategies based on residual insecticide spraying , insect screens , and bednets . the model accurately fitted and predicted field data in the absence and presence of insecticide . insect screens appear to offer an effective and sustainable alternative , which may be part of multi-disease interventions for the integrated control of neglected vector-borne diseases .
background : the weight with which a specific outcome feature contributes to preference quantifies a person’s ‘taste’ for that feature . however , far from being fixed personality characteristics , tastes are plastic . they tend to align , for example , with those of others even if such conformity is not rewarded . we hypothesised that people can be uncertain about their tastes . people can thus learn about them by considering evidence , such as the preferences of relevant others , and then performing Bayesian updating .
ethylene and auxin act synergistically to regulate root growth and development . however , their interaction in rice is still unclear . here , we report that the transcriptional activation of OsEIL1 on the expression of YUC8/REIN7 and indole-3-pyruvic acid ( IPA ) -dependent auxin biosynthesis is required for ethylene-inhibited root elongation . by screening phenotypes of seedling primary root from mutagenesis libraries following ethylene treatment , our findings reveal a model of interaction between ethylene , enhancing our understanding of ethylene signaling in rice early seedlings .
the long noncoding RNA is upregulated in cancer tissues and its elevated expression is associated with hyper-proliferation , but the underlying mechanism is poorly understood . we demonstrate that MALAT1 levels are regulated during normal cell cycle progression . Genome-wide transcriptome analyses in normal human diploid fibroblasts reveal that p53 is a major downstream mediator of MALAt1 activity . furthermore , the cell cycle defects observed in mlat1-depleted cells are sensitive to p3 levels , indicating that the adipose , an oncogenic transcription factor involved in G2/M progression , due to altered binding of splicing factors on B-MYB ( Mybl2 ) pre-mRNA and aberrant alternative . this study provides mechanistic insights on the role of ml2 in regulating cellular proliferation .
we investigated the potential role of interleukin ( IL ) -7 in HIV-1 vaginal transmission in an ex vivo system of human cervico-vaginal tissue . we simulated a situation by depositing HIV-1 on cervinosa in combination with IL-7 at concentrations comparable with those measured in semen of HIV-1-infected men . analysis of T cells isolated from infected tissues showed that IL7 reduced CD4+ T cell depletion preventing apoptosis , as shown by the decrease in the number of cells expressing the anti-apoptotic marker APO2 . also , il-7 increased the fraction of cycling CD4 + T cells . furthermore , we observed an enhancement of virus replication in lymphoid tissue explants .
the evolutionary origins of genetic robustness are still under debate : it may arise as a consequence of requirements imposed by varying environmental conditions , due to intrinsic factors such as metabolic requirements , or directly due to an adaptive selection in favor of genes that allow a species to endure genetic perturbations . Stratifying the individual effects of each origin requires one to study the pertaining evolutionary forces across many species under diverse conditions . here we conduct the first large-scale computational study charting the level of robustness of metabolic networks of hundreds of bacterial species across many simulated growth environments .
the elongator histone acetyltransferase is a catalytic subunit of the six-subunit Elongator complex , partially lose silencing of reporter genes at the chromosome VIIL telomere and at the HMR locus , and are sensitive to the DNA replication inhibitor hydroxyurea ( HU ) and the damaging agent methyl methanesulfonate ( MMS ) . however , how these pathways are regulated is not well understood . here we report a novel role for the intact elp3 mutant , which has allele specific genetic interactions with mutations in POL30 that encode PCNA and PCNA binds to the protein PCNA both in vivo and in vitro .
background : Vaccination is an effective method to protect against infectious diseases . an important consideration in any vaccine formulation is the inoculum dose , i . e ., amount of antigen or live attenuated pathogen that is used . Higher levels generally lead to better stimulation of the immune response but might cause more severe side effects and allow for less population coverage in presence of vaccine shortages . determining the optimal amount of inocular dose is an important component of rational vaccine design . we illustrate the concept of using data and models to inform inocleum dose determination for vaccines , and wby fitting a mathematical model to data from influenza A virus ( IAV ) infection of mice and human parainfluenza virus ( HPIV ) infections of cotton rats at different inocuum doses and to explore how such a framework might be used to determine an optimal ino
we have used whole-genome bisulfite sequencing to comprehensively characterize the methylomes from Dnmt3a wildtype and mouse lung cancers . our results show that profound global methylation changes can occur in K-ras–induced lung cancer . further data analysis revealed that the chromosome domains of the phenotypes were characterized by large hypomethylated domains that correspond to nuclear lamina-associated domains , and that the tumors showed moderate levels of gene deregulation . in summary , our results uncover conserved features of cancer methylos and define the role of the enzyme in maintaining DNA methylations in cancer.
genome-wide association ( gWA ) studies have identified common genetic determinants of the PR interval in individuals of European and Asian ancestry , but there is a general paucity of GWA studies in individuals . we performed gw studies in African American individuals from four cohorts ( n = 6 , 247 ) to identify genetic variants associated with PR interval duration . the signal explained 2% of PR interval variability in African Americans ( beta = 5 . 1 msec per minor allele , 95% CI = 1 . 8–3 . 0 , p = 31023 ) , and in the meta-analysis . our findings demonstrate the relevance of common variants to African Americans at four loci previously associated with p2 . 510 8 ) in one but not the other three cohorts .
inhibitory interneurons play critical roles in shaping the firing patterns of principal neurons in many brain systems . despite difference in the anatomy or functions of neuronal circuits containing inhibition , two basic motifs repeatedly emerge: feed-forward and feedback . in the locust , it was proposed that a subset of lateral horn internions ( LHNs ) , provide feeding-forward inhibition onto Kenyon cells to maintain their sparse firing — a property critical for olfactory learning and memory . to clarify basic differences in the effects of feedback vs . feedback inhibition in circuit dynamics we here use a model of the mushroom body , and that inhibition from this cell is mediated by a feedback loop including KCs and the giant GABAergic neuron .
the purpose of the BRCA Challenge is to provide the community with a reliable and easily accessible record of variants interpreted for a high-penetrance phenotype . the data set is based on shared information from existing clinical databases —Breast Cancer Information Core ( BIC ) , ClinVar , and the Leiden Open Variation Database —as well as population databases , all linked to a single point of access . ongoing work includes direct contact with national centers with access to BRCA1 and BRCA2 diagnostic data to encourage data sharing , development of methods suitable for extraction of genetic variation at the level of individual laboratory reports , engagement with participants communities to enable a more comprehensive understanding of the clinical significance of gene variation .
the small RAF-MEK-MAPK module that lies downstream of RAS is one of the main conduits through which RAS transmits proliferative signals in normal and cancer cells . Interestingly , most of these were found to control RAF activation , thus suggesting a central regulatory role for this event . to obtain a comprehensive view of the elements functionally linked to the RAS/MAPK cascade , we used a quantitative assay in Drosophila S2 cells to conduct a genome-wide RNAi screen for factors impacting MAPK expression . the screen led to the identification of 101 validated hits , including most of the previously known factors associated to this pathway . we further characterized two representative members of this group and surprisingly found that they act by regulating mapk alternative splicing .
we describe the impact of transmission divergence on our ability to reconstruct outbreaks using two outbreak reconstruction tools , the R packages outbreaker and phybreak , and demonstrate that , in agreement with previous observations , genetic sequence data of rapidly evolving pathogens can provide valuable information on individual transmission events . we highlight the informational limitations of genetic sequencing data in certain outbreak scenarios and demonstrate the need to expand the toolkit to integrate other types of epidemiological data . a fundamental and as of yet poorly addressed limitation of such approaches is the requirement for genetic diversity to arise on epidemiological timescales . to quantify and compare the useful genetic diversity expected from genetic data in different pathogen outbreaks , we introduce here the concept of ‘transmission divergency’ , defined as the number of mutations separating whole genome sequences sampled from transmission pairs .
background : hyperendemic circulation of all four types of dengue virus ( DENV-1-4 ) has expanded globally , fueling concern for increased incidence of severe dengue . while majority of DENV infections are subclinical , epidemiologic studies suggest that type-cross-reactive immunity can influence disease outcome in subsequent infections . the mechanisms controlling these differential clinical outcomes remain poorly defined . significant differences were found in cytokine production based on both the type of deNV used for stimulation and the occurrence of clinical illness . in addition , secretion of 30 cytokines was measured using a multiplexed , bead-based array.results:a total of 50 subjects with symptomatic infection were stimulated in vitro with DENV , and the secretions of IL-15 and IL-2R , MIP-1 , RANTES , or GM-CSF were significantly lower by PBMC of subjects who later developed symptom
