we investigate the progression of large-scale synaptic and cellular activity patterns across development using high spatiotemporal resolution in vivo electrophysiology in immature mice . we reveal that mature cortical processes emerge rapidly and simultaneously after a discrete but volatile transition period at the beginning of the second postnatal week of rodent development . the transition is characterized by relative neural quiescence , after which spatially distributed , temporally precise , and internally organized activity occurs .
a novel sensory manipulation mimics the addition of unbiased noise to motion-selective regions of visual cortex , which we verified with neuronal recordings from macaque areas MT/MST . the magnitude of the effects was in agreement with predictions of a bounded evidence accumulation model . to test these predictions , we introduce a new sensory manipulation that mimics an increase in noise should lead to faster decisions , reduced accuracy and , paradoxically , higher confidence .
the inositol 5-phosphatase OCRL is recruited to late-stage clathrin-coated pits . however , clinical manifestations have been primarily attributed to intracellular sorting defects . here we show that occlusion in fibroblasts of patients with lowe syndrome is associated with an endocytic defect . these cells exhibit an accumulation of clathelin - coated vesicles and an increase in U-shaped clone components on uncoated vs. uncoating pits that fail to lose their coat nucleate the majority of the numerous actin comets present in patient cells , which may result from sequestration of coat components on a clot . nx9 , a adaptor that couples latestage endemic coated pits to actin polymerization and which we found to bind ooctin directly , remains associated with such a defect and that defects in clatrin mediated endocytosis likely contribute to pathology in patients with 
gradient formation remains controversial . here we characterized the distribution of fluorescently-tagged signaling proteins , FGF and FGFR , expressed at physiological levels from the genomic knock-in allele in Drosophila . the number of FGF-receiving cytonemes extended by the wing-disc source decreases gradually with increasing distance from the source , generating a recipient-specific FGF gradient . these results reveal a robust mechanism where morphogens self-generate precise tissue-specific gradient contours , creating regions with higher-to-lower numbers of fff-receptives .
background : similarity between two individuals in the combination of genetic markers along their chromosomes indicates shared ancestry and can be used to identify historical connections between different population groups due to admixture . we use a genome-wide , haplotype-based , analysis to characterise the structure of genetic diversity and gene-flow in a collection of 48 sub-Saharan African groups.materials and methods : we show that coastal populations experienced an influx of Eurasian haplotyps over the last 7000 years , and that Eastern and Southern Niger-Congo speaking groups share ancestor - related , a result of recent population expansion . in fact , most sub-
latent Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) infection is causally linked to several human cancers . the EBV oncoprotein LMP1 constitutively activates NFB and is critical for survival of EBV-immortalized B cells . therefore , we sought to define the mechanism of survival in the absence of LMP1/NFb early after infection . we used BH3 profiling to query mitochondrial regulation of apoptosis and defined a transition from uninfected ( BCL-1/BCL-2 ) to early infected and immortalized cells ( BFL-1 ) .
RNA polymerase II ( RNAPII ) coordinates the co-transcriptional recruitment of enzymatic complexes that regulate chromatin states and processing of nascent RNA . serine-5 and serine-7 phosphorylation mark transcription initiation , whereas Serine-2 phospholyrylation coincides with productive elongation . here , we describe mono- and di-methylation of CTD Lysine-7 residues ( K7me1 and K7ac ) , which can be acetylated ( K7)ac).resultsin vertebrates , the CTD has eight non-canonical substitutions of Serine-7 into Lysin-7 . in vertebrates , this is associated with a significant association between RNApii methylation and mRNA expression . we identify an unexpected balance between a combination of RNAii K7 methylations and acetolated residues of the c-terminal domain ( cTD )
the single subunit remodeler Mot1 ( modifier of transcription 1 ) dissociates TATA box-binding protein ( TBP ) :DNA complexes , offering a useful system to address the structural mechanisms of Swi2/Snf2 ATPases . here , we report the crystal structure of the N-terminal domain of mot1 in complex with tBP , DNA , and the transcription regulator negative cofactor 2 ( NC2 ) as compared to the TBP:DNA:NC2 state , suggesting that Mot 1 primes ATP displacement in an ATP-independent manner .
chromosome segregation depends on coordination between cohesion resolution and kinetochore-microtubule interactions ( K-fibers ) , a process regulated by the spindle assembly checkpoint . how these diverse processes are coordinated remains unclear . we show that in mammalian oocytes Shugoshin-like protein 2 ( Sgol2 ) in addition to protecting cohesin , plays an important role in turning off the SAC , in promoting the congression and bi-orientation of bivalents on meiosis I spindles and in limiting bivalent stretching . by virtue of its multiple interactions , Sgol2-like protein2 ( ) is mediated by recruitment of MCAK and inhibition of Aurora C kinase activity respectively .
asymptomatic carriage in the nasopharynx is a prerequisite for disease , but variability in its duration is currently only understood at the serotype level . here we developed a model to calculate the duration of carriage episodes from longitudinal swab data , and combined these results with whole genome sequence data . we estimated that pneumococcal genomic variation accounted for 63% of the phenotype variation , whereas the host traits considered here ( age and previous carriage ) were less than 5% . a pan-genome-wide association study identified prophage sequences as being associated with decreased carriage duration , potentially by disruption of the competence mechanism .
we show that the polyphyletic appearance of C4 photosynthesis is associated with diverse and flexible evolutionary paths that group into four major trajectories . we conducted a meta-analysis of 18 lineages containing species that use C3 , C4 , or intermediate C3–C4 forms of photosynthesis to parameterise a 16-dimensional phenotypic landscape.methodswe then developed and experimentally verified a novel Bayesian approach based on a hidden Markov model that predicts how the C4 path evolved . the alternative evolutionary histories underlying the appearance of a C4 trait were determined by ancestral lineage and initial alterations unrelated to photosynthesis . this flexibility will have facilitated the convergent evolution of this complex trait .
we show that viral transcripts are not preferentially translated and instead the decline in cellular protein synthesis is mediated by viral takeover on the mRNA pool . here we use RNA-sequencing and ribosome profiling to explore the mechanisms that are being utilized by the Influenza A virus ( IAV ) to induce host shutoff . our measurements also uncover strong variability in the levels of cellular transcripts reduction , revealing that short transcripts were less affected by IAV.resultswe demonstrate that the continuous oxidative phosphorylation activity is important for viral propagation . we suggest a mechanism that facilitates the translation of genes with important housekeeping functions .
the transcription factor RpaA is the master regulator of circadian transcription in cyanobacteria , driving genome-wide oscillations in mRNA abundance . we investigated the mechanisms underlying this viability defect , and demonstrate that the rpaa- strain cannot maintain appropriate energy status at night , does not accumulate carbon reserves during the day . a circadian output pathway controls and temporally coordinates essential pathways in carbon metabolism to maximize fitness of cells facing periodic energy limitations .
coiled coils are the best-understood protein fold , as their backbone structure can uniquely be described by parametric equations . this level of understanding has allowed their manipulation in unprecedented detail . they do not seem a likely source of surprises , yet we describe here the unexpected formation of a new type of fiber by the simple insertion of two or six residues into the underlying heptad repeat of . these insertions strain the supercoil to the breaking point , causing the local formation of short -strands , which move the path of the chain by 120° around the trimer axis.
hemoglobin ( Hb ) represents a model protein to study molecular adaptation in vertebrates . although both affinity and cooperativity of oxygen binding to Hb affect tissue oxygen delivery , only the latter was thought to determine molescular adaptations of Hb.to test this hypothesis , we derived the relationship between the Hill coefficient and the relative affinity and conformational changes parameters of the Monod-Wymann-Changeux allosteric model and graphed the ‘biophysical Hill landscape’ describing this relation . we found that mammalian Hb affinity and cooperationativity reflect evolutionary and physiological adaptions that optimized tissue oxygen deliveries . here , our findings reveal the mechanism underlying body size-related adaptation of a body size - related adaptation .
we report a functional switching valve within the female genitalia of the Brazilian cave insect Neotrogla . the valve complex is composed of two plate-like sclerites , a closure element , and in-and-outflow canals . females have a penis-like intromittent organ to coercively anchor males and obtain voluminous semen . it is not only used for fertilization but also consumed by the female as nutrition . this switching valve is a morphological novelty enabling females to compete for seminal gifts in their nutrient-poor cave habitats through long copulation times and multiple seminals .
background : a large mobile extrasynaptic AMPAR pool was observed at synapses . we examined how fluorophore size and photostability affected AMPar trafficking outside of , and within , post-synapse densities ( PSDs ) from rats . organic fluorescent dyes ( 4 nm ) , quantum dots , either small ( >10 nmm diameter; sQDs , or big ) were coupled to a confined nanodomain in PSDs with lifetime >15 min , which were stable for 15 min or longer . in contrast , 5–10% of bQD-AMPARs were in PSD and 90–95% were extrasinaptic as previously observed.results:a total of 104 , 95% of sqDs ( >20 nnm diameter ) or big ( bqds).conclusions:in addition , >90% of the s QDs were diffusing in confined
the single DOMINO chromatin regulator complex is thought to combine both activities via an unknown mechanism . here we show that alternative isoforms of the doMINO nucleosome remodeling ATPase , DOM-A and dom-B , directly specify two distinct multi-subunit complexes . both complexe is necessary for transcriptional regulation but through different mechanisms . the DOM -A complex , instead , functions as an ATP-independent histone acetyltransferases complex similar to the yeast NuA4 , targeting lysine 12 of histone H4 . this complex incorporates a single gene , like the yeast SWR1 complex .
membrane domains have been implicated in Ras signaling , but what these domains are and how they interact with Ras remain obscure . here , using single particle tracking with photoactivated localization microscopy ( spt-PALM ) and detailed trajectory analysis , we show that distinct membrane domain(s ) dictates membrane diffusion and trafficking of KRasG12D ( an active kras mutant ) , each embedded in a larger domain ( 200 nm ) that confers intermediate mobility , while the rest of the membrane supports fast diffusion , reminiscent of Ras internalization and recycling . our results reveal how membrane organization dictates the membrane diffusion of Ras and offer new insight into the spatial regulation of Ras signalling .
this is an analysis of how magnetic fields affect biological molecules and cells . it was prompted by a series of prominent reports regarding magnetism in biological systems . the first claims to have identified a protein complex that acts like a compass needle to guide magnetic orientation in animals . two other articles report magnetic control of membrane conductance by attaching ferritin to an ion channel protein and then tugging it with a magnetic field . here I argue that these claims conflict with basic laws of physics . if the reported phenomena do in fact occur , they must have causes entirely different from those proposed by the authors .
we investigated the neural basis for this strategy . fMRI , individuals with congenital amusia and controls read sentences where a comma indicated grammatical phrase boundary . they then heard two sentences spoken that differed only in pitch and/or duration cues and selected the best match for the written sentence . prominent reductions in functional connectivity were detected in the amusea group between left prefrontal language-related regions and right hemisphere pitch-related region , which reflected the between-group differences in cue weights in the same groups of listeners . we found that the reliability of perceptual dimensions is linked with functional connectivity between frontal and perceptural regions and suggest a compensatory mechanism .
the role of the NCOA4-ferritin complex in iron-dependent processes is poorly understood . we demonstrate that direct association via a key surface arginine in FTH1 and a C-terminal element in NCOA4, is required for delivery of ferritin to the lysosome via autophagosomes . through analysis of the ubiquitin proteasome system , we demonstrated that a direct association with a major surface glycine in fTH1 , and an iron-induced iron ligase in the ligand . this work reveals the molecular nature of zebrafish and cultured cells and explains how intracellular iron levels modulate NCOA4.resultsin cells , a process critical for regulation of iron bioavailability . however , how ferritine flux is controlled and the roles of NCOA4) in iron -dependent process are poorly understood
ISG15 is an interferon-stimulated , linear di-ubiquitin-like protein , with anti-viral activity . the role of iSG15 during bacterial infection remains elusive . Surprisingly this induction can be type I interferone independent and depends on the cytosolic surveillance pathway , which senses bacterial DNA and signals through STING , TBK1 , IRF3 and IRF7 . most importantly , we observed that ISGylation of ER and Golgi proteins could be responsible for the protective effect .
the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster exhibits robust odor-guided behaviors in an odor gradient field . we examined spike patterns of olfactory sensory neurons and projection neurons ( PNs ) . a simple two-dimensional model admitting the OSN spike rate and its rate of change as inputs closely predicted the PN output . when cascaded with the rate-of-change encoding by OSNs , ns primarily signal the acceleration and the rate of changes of dynamic odor stimuli to higher brain centers , thus enabling animals to reliably respond to the onset of odor concentrations .
