 'Mesenchymal stem and stromal cells ( MSCs ) are important regulators of homeostasis and regeneration in many organs, including the lungs. We used the highly prevalent respiratory syncytial virus ( RSV ) to investigate the role of LR-MSCs during virus-induced lung injury in a primary pediatric LR-MSC model and a state-of-the-art model of human RSV infection in lamb. We found that RSV infection of pediatric LR-MSCs led to a robust activation, characterized by a strong antiviral and pro-inflammatory phenotype combined with mediators related to T cell function. In line with this, following in vivo infection, RSV invades and activates LR-MSCs, resulting in the expansion of the pulmonary MSC pool. Moreover, the global transcriptional response of LR-MSCs appears to follow RSV disease, switching from an early antiviral signature to repair mechanisms including differentiation, tissue remodeling, and angiogenesis. These findings demonstrate the involvement of LR-MSCs during virus-mediated acute lung injury and may have therapeutic implications.'
 'Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a parasitic disease that affects the spleen, liver, and bone marrow. It is endemic in South Sudan, where it is caused by the protozoan Leishmania donovani parasite and transmitted by phlebotomine sandflies. Pregnant women are considered particularly vulnerable for developing complications of VL disease, including opportunistic infections and anaemia. There is limited evidence available about clinical aspects and treatment outcomes of VL in pregnancy. We describe characteristics, maternal and pregnancy outcomes from a cohort of pregnant women with VL. We conducted a retrospective analysis using routine programme data from a MSF health facility in Lankien, Jonglei State, South Sudan, between Oct 2014 and April 2018. Records were extracted of women diagnosed with VL while pregnant, and those symptomatic during pregnancy but diagnosed during the first two weeks postpartum. Records were matched with a random sample of non-pregnant women of reproductive age (15–45 years) with VL from the same period. We included 113 women with VL in pregnancy and 223 non-pregnant women with VL. Women with VL in pregnancy presented with more severe anaemia, were more likely to need blood transfusion, and were more often prescribed antibiotics, as compared to non-pregnant women with VL. Adverse pregnancy outcomes, including miscarriage and premature delivery, were reported in 20% (16/81) where VL was diagnosed in pregnancy, and 50% (13/26) where VL was diagnosed postpartum. Postpartum haemorrhage was common. Pregnant women were more likely to require extension of treatment to achieve cure, as compared to non-pregnant women with VL. Nevertheless, overall initial cure rates were high (96.5%) and mortality was low (1.8%) in this cohort of pregnant women with VL. Our data suggest that good maternal survival rates are possible in resource-limited settings, despite the high incidence of complications.
 'Typhoid fever is a systemic febrile illness caused by Salmonella enterica subspecies enterica serovar Typhi ( S . Typhi ). The global burden of typhoid fever is estimated to range between 11–21 million cases and approximately 128,000 to 161,000 deaths annually. However, this increase is not uniform globally and has evolved at different rates in various endemic regions. The first cases of S . Typhi isolates showing multidrug resistance ( MDR ) were reported in the early 1970s. Later, ciprofloxacin resistance was also reported in majority of clinical isolates from endemic regions. In 2016, an extensive drug resistant ( XDR ) clone of S . Typhi with resistance to ceftriaxone emerged. This evolving threat highlights the importance of monitoring circulating strains of S . Typhi for early detection of antimicrobial resistance patterns to guide on selection of effective antibiotics for patient management. Whole-genome sequence ( WGS ) -based approaches using next-generation sequencing ( NGS ) have become effective tools to study genetic diversity and prediction of resistance phenotypes. In this study, we sequenced genomes of invasive Salmonella isolates obtained from ongoing surveillance in Kibera, an urban informal settlement in Nairobi, Kenya, over a 12-year period to understand the evolutionary history of these strains, their relationship to global typhoid isolates, and how antimicrobial resistance determinants have changed over time. We found that S . Typhi in Kibera belong to four wgMLST clades, one of which is frequently associated with MDR genes. This poses a challenge in treatment and control. Our study highlights the importance of monitoring circulating strains of S . Typhi for early detection of antimicrobial resistance patterns to guide on selection of effective antibiotics for patient management.'
 'Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus-2 ( SARS-CoV-2 ) is the third known emergence of a coronavirus ( CoV ) with the ability to cause substantial human morbidity and mortality . Although vaccines are available, too few have been administered worldwide to keep the virus in check and to prevent mutations leading to immune escape . To determine if antibodies could be identified with universal coronavirus activity, plasma from convalescent subjects was screened for IgG against a stabilized pre-fusion SARS-CoV-2 spike S2 domain, which is highly conserved between human β-coronavirus. From these subjects, several S2-specific human monoclonal antibodies ( hmAbs ) were developed that neutralized SARS-CoV-2 with recognition of all variants of concern ( VoC ) tested ( Beta , Gamma , Delta , Epsilon , and Omicron ). The hmAb 1249A8 emerged as the most potent and broad hmAb, able to recognize all human β-coronavirus and neutralize SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV. 1249A8 demonstrated significant prophylactic activity in K18 hACE2 mice infected with SARS-CoV-2 lineage A and lineage B Beta , and Omicron VoC. 1249A8 delivered as a single 4 mg/kg intranasal ( i . n . ) dose 12 hours following infection with SARS-CoV-2 Delta protected them from weight loss, with therapeutic activity further enhanced when combined with 1213H7, an S1-specific neutralizing hmAb. As little as 2 mg/kg of 1249A8 i . n . dose 12 hours following infection with SARS-CoV Urbani strain , protected hamsters from weight loss and significantly reduced upper and lower respiratory viral burden. These results indicate in vivo cooperativity between S1 and S2 specific neutralizing hmAbs and that potent universal coronavirus neutralizing mAbs with therapeutic potential can be induced in humans and can guide universal coronavirus vaccine development.'
 'The yeast Candida parapsilosis metabolizes hydroxyderivatives of benzene and benzoic acid via the 3-oxoadipate and gentisate pathways, whose components are encoded by two metabolic gene clusters. In this study, we determined the chromosome level assembly of the C . parapsilosis strain CLIB214 and used it for transcriptomic and proteomic investigation of cells cultivated on hydroxyaromatic substrates. We found that the genes coding for enzymes and plasma membrane transporters involved in the 3-oxoadipate and gentisate pathways are highly upregulated and their expression is controlled in a substrate-specific manner. However, regulatory proteins involved in this process are not known. Using the knockout mutants, we show that putative transcriptional factors encoded by the genes Otf1p and Gtf1p located within these gene clusters function as transcriptional activators of the 3-oxoadipate and gentisate pathway, respectively. We also propose that bicarbonate ions resulting from decarboxylation of hydroxybenzoates also contribute to differences in the cell responses to hydroxybenzoates and hydroxybenzenes. Finally, our phylogenetic analysis highlights evolutionary paths leading to metabolic adaptations of yeast cells assimilating hydroxyaromatic substrates.'
 'The Neural Engineering Framework (NEF) is a computational framework that uses spiking neural networks to model and simulate cognitive systems. In this study, the authors propose an extension of the NEF called the Oracle-Supervised Neural Engineering Framework (osNEF) that uses an "oracle" to supervise the learning process. The oracle is a parallel network that is used during training to provide feedback to the main network. The authors demonstrate the versatility of osNEF by training it to perform a variety of cognitive tasks using different types of neuron models and synaptic mechanisms. They also show that osNEF can be used to model working memory in the prefrontal cortex of the brain. The authors conclude that osNEF is a powerful tool for building biologically plausible and cognitively capable neural models.'
 'Down syndrome (DS) is a genetic disorder caused by the partial or complete trisomy of human chromosome 21 (HSA21). The trisomy leads to a complex syndrome with a variety of phenotypes, including intellectual disability. However, the exact mechanism by which the trisomy leads to these phenotypes is not fully understood. In this study, the authors performed a meta-analysis of all publicly available transcriptomic datasets in both human and mouse, comparing trisomic and euploid transcriptomes from different sources. They integrated all these data into a "DS network" and found that genome-wide deregulation as a consequence of trisomy 21 is not arbitrary but involves deregulation of specific molecular cascades in which both HSA21 genes and HSA21 interactors are more consistently deregulated compared to other genes. The most consistent changes are enriched in interferon related categories and neutrophil activation, reinforcing the concept that DS is an inflammatory disease. The authors also created a user-friendly web application to query Ensembl gene IDs and retrieve all the information of their differential expression across the datasets. This study provides a comprehensive analysis of the transcriptomic changes in DS and identifies new genes that could be useful for generating or confirming hypotheses and supporting new putative therapeutic candidates.'
 'Ongoing oscillations and evoked responses are two main types of neuronal activity obtained with diverse electrophysiological recordings ( EEG/MEG/iEEG/LFP ). Although typically studied separately, they might in fact be closely related. One possibility to unite them is to demonstrate that neuronal oscillations have non-zero mean which predicts that stimulus- or task-triggered amplitude modulation of oscillations can contribute to the generation of evoked responses. The authors validated this mechanism using computational modelling and analysis of a large EEG data set. With a biophysical model, they demonstrated that intracellular currents in the neuron are asymmetric and, consequently, the mean of alpha oscillations is non-zero. To understand the effect that neuronal currents exert on oscillatory mean, they varied several biophysical and morphological properties of neurons in the network, such as voltage-gated channel densities, length of dendrites, and intensity of incoming stimuli. For a very large range of model parameters, they observed evidence for non-zero mean of oscillations. Complimentary, they analyzed empirical rest EEG recordings of 90 participants (50 young, 40 elderly) and, with spatio-spectral decomposition, detected at least one spatially-filtred oscillatory component of non-zero mean alpha oscillations in 93% of participants. In order to explain a complex relationship between the dynamics of amplitude-envelope and corresponding baseline shifts, they performed additional simulations with simple oscillators coupled with different time delays. They demonstrated that the extent of spatial synchronisation may obscure macroscopic estimation of alpha rhythm modulation while leaving baseline shifts unchanged. Overall, their results predict that amplitude modulation of neural oscillations should at least partially explain the generation of evoked responses. Therefore, inference about changes in evoked responses with respect to cognitive conditions, age, or neuropathologies should be constructed while taking into account oscillatory neuronal dynamics.'
 'Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever virus ( CCHFV ) is a tick-borne virus that can cause a hemorrhagic fever in humans with a case fatality rate of up to 40% . CCHFV has been reported in Africa, Asia, and southern Europe, and recently, due to the expanding range of its vector, autochthonous cases have been reported in Spain. We used RNA-Seq in two human liver cell lines infected with CCHFV to examine kinetic changes in host expression and viral replication simultaneously at 1 and 3 days post infection. Through this, we identified numerous host pathways that were modulated by the virus, including antiviral response and endothelial cell leakage. Additionally, we performed whole-genome sequencing on CCHFV to assess viral diversity over time and its relationship to the host response. As a result, we have demonstrated that through next-generation mRNA deep-sequencing it is possible to not only examine mRNA gene expression but also to examine viral evolution. We have also identified key pathways that are upregulated or downregulated in liver cell lines, which may be involved in endothelial cell leakage in the context of CCHFV. Our findings provide insight into the pathogenesis of CCHFV and may have implications for prognosis.'
 'Working memory ( WM ) is a cognitive function that allows us to temporarily store and manipulate information to guide our behavior . Schizophrenia ( SZ ) is a mental disorder that affects many cognitive functions, including WM. Previous studies have attributed WM deficits in SZ to decreased capacity, but recent research suggests that other components, such as precision, also play a role. In this study, we measured the performance of 60 SZ and 61 HC subjects in a classical delay-estimation VWM task and evaluated several influential computational models proposed in basic science of VWM to disentangle the effect of various memory components. We found that the model assuming variable precision across items and trials was the best model to explain the performance of both groups. SZ exhibited abnormally larger variability of allocating memory resources rather than resources or capacity per se. Individual differences in the resource allocation variability predicted variation of symptom severity in SZ, highlighting its functional relevance to schizophrenic pathology. Our findings provide an alternative view instead of the widely accepted decreased-capacity theory and highlight the key role of elevated resource allocation variability in generating atypical VWM behavior in schizophrenia. Our findings also shed new light on the utility of Bayesian observer models to characterize mechanisms of mental deficits in clinical neuroscience.'
 'The HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein (Env) is responsible for viral entry into host cells. The Env protein is composed of two subunits: gp120 and gp41. The gp120 subunit contains the receptor-binding site for CD4 and the coreceptor-binding site for CCR5/CXCR4. The gp41 subunit is responsible for membrane fusion between the virus and the host cell. In this study, the authors identified a primary HIV-1 Env variant that consistently supported over 300% increased viral infectivity in the presence of autologous or heterologous HIV-positive plasma. However, in the absence of HIV-positive plasma, viruses with this Env exhibited reduced infectivity that was not due to decreased CD4 binding. Using Env chimeras and sequence analysis, the authors mapped this phenotype to a change in the gp41 heptad repeat 1 (HR1) region, Q563R. They demonstrated that Q563R reduces viral infection by disrupting formation of the gp41 six-helix bundle required for virus-cell membrane fusion. Intriguingly, antibodies that bind cluster I epitopes on gp41 overcome this inhibitory effect, restoring infectivity to wild-type levels. The authors further demonstrate that the Q563R change increases HIV-1 sensitivity to broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNAbs) targeting the gp41 membrane-proximal external region (MPER). In summary, the authors identify an HIV-1 Env variant with impaired infectivity whose Env functionality is restored through the binding of host antibodies. These data contribute to our understanding of gp41 residues involved in membrane fusion and identify a mechanism by which host factors can alleviate a viral defect.'
 'COMSUC is a web server that allows users to explore consensus molecular subtypes of more than 30 cancers based on eight clustering methods, five types of omics data from public reference datasets or users’ private data, and three consensus clustering methods. The web server provides interactive and modifiable visualization and publishable output of analysis results. Researchers can also exchange consensus subtype results with collaborators via project IDs. COMSUC is now publicly and freely available with no login requirement at http://comsuc.bioinforai.tech/. For a video summary of this web server, see S1 Video and S1 File.'
 ' Ticks are a diverse group of ectoparasitic blood-feeding organisms that are widely distributed around the world. The seabird tick, Ixodes uriae, is one such species that is found in both the northern and southern hemispheres. To determine whether viruses associated with ticks exhibit the same evolutionary patterns as their hosts, we collected Ix . uriae specimens from seabirds near a Gentoo penguin colony in Antarctica and from migratory birds on Bonden island in northern Sweden. Through meta-transcriptomic next-generation sequencing, we identified 16 RNA viruses, seven of which were novel. Notably, we detected the same species, Ronne virus, and two closely related species, Bonden virus and Piguzov virus, in both hemispheres, indicating that there have been at least two cross-circumpolar dispersal events. In marked contrast, our phylogenetic analysis revealed no movement of the Ix . uriae tick hosts between the same locations. Combined, these data suggest that migratory birds are responsible for the movement of viruses at both local and global scales. '
 'Meiotic recombination is a vital biological process that ensures accurate chromosome segregation and promotes genetic diversity. Tetrad analysis is a powerful approach to study meiotic recombination by examining the genetic makeup and recombination landscape of meiotic products. RecombineX is a new computational framework that automates the full workflow of marker identification, gamete genotyping, and recombination profiling based on any organism or genetic background with batch processing capability. RecombineX can also perform analysis based on parental genome assemblies, which facilitates analyzing meiotic recombination landscapes in their native genomic contexts. Additional features such as copy number variation profiling and missing genotype inference further enhance downstream analysis. RecombineX also includes a dedicated module for simulating the genomes and reads of recombinant tetrads, which enables fine-tuned simulation-based hypothesis testing. This simulation module revealed the power and accuracy of RecombineX even when analyzing tetrads with very low sequencing depths (e.g., 1-2X). Tetrad sequencing data from the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii were further used to demonstrate the accuracy and robustness of RecombineX for organisms with both small and large genomes, manifesting RecombineX as an all-around one stop solution for future tetrad analysis. Interestingly, our re-analysis of the budding yeast tetrad sequencing data with RecombineX and Oxford Nanopore sequencing revealed two unusual structural rearrangement events that were not noticed before, which exemplify the occasional genome instability triggered by meiosis.'
 'The APOBEC3 ( A3 ) genes encode cytidine deaminase proteins with potent antiviral and anti-retroelement activity . This locus is characterized by duplication , recombination , and deletion events that gave rise to the seven A3s found in primates . These include three single deaminase domain A3s ( A3A , A3C , and A3H ) and four double deaminase domain A3s ( A3B , A3D , A3F , and A3G ) . The most potent of the A3 proteins against HIV-1 is A3G . However , it is not clear if double deaminase domain A3s have a generalized functional advantage to restrict HIV-1 . In order to test whether superior restriction factors could be created by genetically linking single A3 domains into synthetic double domains , we linked A3C and A3H single domains in novel combinations . We found that A3C/A3H double domains acquired enhanced antiviral activity that is at least as potent , if not better than , A3G . Although these synthetic double domain A3s package into budding virions more efficiently than their respective single domains , this does not fully explain their gain of antiviral potency . The antiviral activity is conferred both by cytidine-deaminase dependent and independent mechanisms , with the latter correlating to an increase in RNA binding affinity . T cell lines expressing this A3C-A3H super restriction factor are able to control replicating HIV-1ΔVif infection to similar levels as A3G . Together , these data show that novel combinations of A3 domains are capable of gaining potent antiviral activity to levels similar to the most potent genome-encoded A3s , via a primarily non-catalytic mechanism .'
 'Cancer is a complex disease characterized by unrelenting tissue growth and clonal evolution. The study of cancer evolution is important for understanding the dynamics of tumor growth and for developing adaptive evolutionary therapies. However, the clinical constraint of sequencing tumor biopsies in bulk from a single site and at a single time point makes it difficult to study cancer evolution in vivo. To address this limitation, researchers have used theoretical population genetics to capture signatures of selection from the variant allele frequency ( VAF ) distribution. However, existing VAF-based methods have limitations such as being maximally compressive, suffering from the curse of dimensionality, and being built under incorrect assumptions. To address these limitations, we developed a proof-of-principle synthetic supervised deep learning approach, TumE, that integrates simulated models of cancer evolution with Bayesian neural networks to infer ongoing selection in bulk-sequenced single tumor biopsies. Analyses in synthetic and patient tumors show that TumE significantly improves both accuracy and inference time per sample when detecting positive selection, deconvoluting selected subclonal populations, and estimating subclone frequency. Importantly, we show how transfer learning can leverage stored knowledge within TumE models for related evolutionary inference tasks, substantially reducing data and computational time for further model development and providing a library of recyclable deep learning models for the cancer evolution community. This extensible framework provides a foundation and future directions for harnessing progressive computational methods for the benefit of cancer genomics and, in turn, the cancer patient.'
 'This study investigates the diversity and distribution of African trypanosomes in two active HAT foci in Chad. The study found that besides the known human pathogenic species T . b . gambiense , T . congolense was detected in human samples in Maro. In addition, an unknown Trypanosoma sp. -129-H was identified in a human with a history of a cured HAT infection and persisting symptoms. In cattle samples from Maro, T . godfreyi and T . grayi were detected besides the known animal pathogens T . theileri and T . simiae. Furthermore, in Maro, evidence for additional unknown trypanosomes was obtained in tsetse. In contrast, in the Mandoul area, only T . theileri , T . vivax , and T . simiae were identified in cattle. Genetic diversity was most prominent in T . vivax and T . theileri . Tsetse control activities in Mandoul reduced the tsetse population and thus the pathogenic parasites. Nevertheless, T . theileri , T . vivax , and T . simiae are frequent in cattle, suggesting transmission by other insect vectors. In contrast, in Maro, transhumance to/from Central African Republic and no tsetse control may have led to the high diversity and frequency of trypanosomes observed, including HAT/AAT pathogenic species. Active HAT infections stress the need to enforce monitoring and control campaigns. Additionally, the diverse trypanosome species in humans and cattle indicate the necessity to investigate the infectivity of the unknown trypanosomes regarding their zoonotic potential. Finally, this study should be widened to other trypanosome hosts to capture the whole diversity of circulating trypanosomes.'
 'Schistosoma haematobium and S. bovis are two closely related species of parasitic flatworms that cause important public health and veterinary issues. These species can hybridize and produce viable offsprings, but the extent of genomic introgression between them is unknown. In this study, we conducted a genomic comparative study and investigated the genomic relationships between S. haematobium, S. bovis, and their hybrids using 19 isolates originating from a wide geographical range over Africa. We developed 56, 181 SNPs that allowed a clear differentiation of S. bovis isolates from a genomic cluster including all S. haematobium isolates and a natural S. haematobium-bovis hybrid. All the isolates from the S. haematobium cluster except the isolate from Madagascar harbored signatures of genomic introgression from S. bovis. Isolates from Corsica, Mali, and Egypt harbored the S. bovis-like Invadolysin gene, an introgressed tract that has been previously detected in some introgressed S. haematobium populations from Niger. Together our results highlight the fact that introgression from S. bovis is widespread across S. haematobium and that the observed introgression is unidirectional. Our findings suggest that S. haematobium populations are not as genetically distinct as previously thought and that the observed introgression may have been adaptive.'
 'HIV vaccines have not been successful in clinical trials . Dimeric IgA ( dIgA ) in the form of secretory IgA is the most abundant antibody class in mucosal tissues , making dIgA a prime candidate for potential HIV vaccines . We coupled Positron Emission Tomography ( PET ) imaging and fluorescent microscopy of 64Cu-labeled , photoactivatable-GFP HIV ( PA-GFP-BaL ) and fluorescently labeled dIgA to determine how dIgA antibodies influence virus interaction with mucosal barriers and viral penetration in colorectal tissue . Our results show that HIV virions rapidly disseminate throughout the colon two hours after exposure . The presence of dIgA resulted in an increase in virions and penetration depth in the transverse colon . Moreover , virions were found in the mesenteric lymph nodes two hours after viral exposure , and the presence of dIgA led to an increase in virions in mesenteric lymph nodes . Taken together , these technologies enable in vivo and in situ visualization of antibody-virus interactions and detailed investigations of early events in HIV infection .'
 'Iliski' is a software package designed to compute Transfer Functions (TFs) between two signals. It includes different pre-treatment routines and TF computation processes: deconvolution, deterministic and non-deterministic optimization algorithms that are adapted to disparate datasets. The software is available under the open-source license CC BY 4.0 on GitHub (https://github.com/alike-aydin/Iliski) and can be used on the most common operating systems, either within the MATLAB environment or as a standalone application. The authors applied Iliski to data on neurovascular coupling, an ensemble of cellular mechanisms that link neuronal activity to local changes of blood flow, highlighting the software benefits and caveats in the computation and evaluation of TFs. They also proposed a workflow that will help users to choose the best computation according to the dataset. Iliski is a valuable tool for researchers in various fields, including neuroscience, engineering, and medicine, who need to analyze complex and intermingled biological signals.
 'Zika virus is a mosquito-borne virus that can be transmitted from mother to child during pregnancy. This can lead to Congenital Zika Syndrome (CZS), which can cause microcephaly, dysphagia, and an increased likelihood of choking. This qualitative evidence synthesis aims to understand the values and preferences of pregnant women, mothers, family members, and health practitioners concerning infant feeding in the presence of CZS or severe disability and nonprogressive, chronic encephalopathies that present with similar problems. The authors found that breastfeeding was the preference for all mothers in the studies, and the inability to do so affected bonding between parents and child, and generated fear and anxiety relating to feeding choices, especially around the risks of choking and swallowing. The authors also found that health professionals were often unable to offer appropriate advice, and that there was a strong desire to achieve individual maternal autonomy in infant feeding decisions. The evidence base has limitations, but consistently reported that parents of children with feeding difficulties due to CZS or similar need information, advice, and counselling, and substantial emotional support. Parents perceive that these needs are often neither recognised nor satisfied; optimal feeding and support strategies for this population have not yet been identified.'
 'Two-component nanoparticles are a versatile platform for multivalent presentation of viral antigens. Computational design of protein nanoparticles with differing sizes and geometries enables combination with antigens of choice to test novel multimerization concepts in immunization strategies. Here, we describe detailed antigenic, structural, and functional characterization of computationally designed tetrahedral, octahedral, and icosahedral nanoparticle immunogens displaying trimeric HIV envelope glycoprotein (Env) ectodomains. Env trimers, based on subtype A (BG505) or consensus group M (ConM) sequences and engineered with SOSIP stabilizing mutations, were fused to an underlying trimeric building block of each nanoparticle. Initial screening yielded one icosahedral and two tetrahedral nanoparticle candidates, capable of presenting twenty or four copies of the Env trimer. A number of analyses, including detailed structural characterization by cryo-EM, demonstrated that the nanoparticle immunogens possessed the intended structural and antigenic properties. When the immunogenicity of ConM-SOSIP trimers presented on a two-component tetrahedral nanoparticle or as soluble proteins were compared in rabbits, the two immunogens elicited similar serum antibody binding titers against the trimer component. Neutralizing antibody titers were slightly elevated in the animals given the nanoparticle immunogen and were initially more focused to the trimer apex. Altogether, our findings indicate that tetrahedral nanoparticles can be successfully applied for presentation of HIV Env trimer immunogens; however, the optimal implementation to different immunization strategies remains to be determined.'
 'Pseudorabies virus ( PRV ) is a highly contagious virus that affects swine and can cause severe respiratory and neurological disease. PRV has evolved various immune evasion mechanisms that target host antiviral immune responses. Here, we show that PRV tegument protein UL13 inhibits STING-mediated antiviral signaling via regulation of STING stability. Mechanistically, UL13 interacts with the CDN domain of STING and recruits the E3 ligase RING-finger protein 5 ( RNF5 ) to promote K27-/K29-linked ubiquitination and degradation of STING. Consequently, deficiency of RNF5 enhances host antiviral immune responses triggered by PRV infection. In addition, mutant PRV lacking UL13 impaired in antagonism of STING-mediated production of type I IFNs and shows attenuated pathogenicity in mice. Our findings suggest that PRV UL13 functions as an antagonist of IFN signaling via a novel mechanism by targeting STING to persistently evade host antiviral responses. This study provides new insights into the immune evasion mechanisms of PRV and may help develop new strategies for controlling PRV infection.'
 'Arthropod-borne viruses (arboviruses) require replication across a wide range of temperatures to perpetuate. While vertebrate hosts tend to maintain temperatures of approximately 37°C—40°C, arthropods are subject to ambient temperatures which can have a daily fluctuation of > 10°C. Temperatures impact vector competence, extrinsic incubation period, and mosquito survival unimodally, with optimal conditions occurring at some intermediate temperature. In addition, the mean and range of daily temperature fluctuations influence arbovirus perpetuation and vector competence. The impact of temperature on arbovirus genetic diversity during systemic mosquito infection, however, is poorly understood. Therefore, we determined how constant extrinsic incubation temperatures of 25°C, 28°C, 32°C, and 35°C control Zika virus (ZIKV) vector competence and population dynamics within Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus mosquitoes. We also examined fluctuating temperatures which better mimic field conditions in the tropics. We found that vector competence varied in a unimodal manner for constant temperatures, peaking between 28°C and 32°C for both Aedes species. Transmission peaked at 10 days post-infection for Aedes aegypti and 14 days for Aedes albopictus. Conversely, fluctuating temperature decreased vector competence. Using RNA-seq to characterize ZIKV population structure, we identified that temperature alters the selective environment in unexpected ways. During mosquito infection, constant temperatures more often elicited positive selection whereas fluctuating temperatures led to strong purifying selection in both Aedes species. These findings demonstrate that temperature has multiple impacts on ZIKV biology, including major effects on the selective environment within mosquitoes.'
2-nonanone is a strong repellent that signals threat to Caenorhabditis elegans, while isoamyl alcohol (IAA) is a strong attractant that signals food. In this study, the authors found that the presence of 2-nonanone blocks the attraction of IAA, and that this effect is mediated by the sensory neurons AWB and ASH. The authors also found that the genes osm-5 and osm-1 play a critical role in this integration process, and that restoring the function of OSM-5 in either AWB or ASH is sufficient to rescue the integration effect. The authors also identified downstream interneurons AVA, AIB, and RIM that contribute to the integration effect. These findings provide insights into the neural circuits that regulate the robust effect of a repulsive odorant to block responses to attractive odorants.
 'Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease caused by the trematode worms of the genus Schistosoma. It is a major public health problem in many parts of the world, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. The current treatment for schistosomiasis is praziquantel, but it has limitations such as drug resistance and the need for repeated administration. Vaccination is considered an effective and sustainable way to control schistosomiasis. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are protein-loaded nano-scaled particles that are released by eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells. They have been shown to play important roles in intercellular communication and have been proposed as vaccine candidates for various diseases. In this study, S. mansoni egg-derived EVs were isolated and characterized. The results showed that the EVs were able to stimulate specific antibodies response and reduce the number of tegumentally deranged adult worms, hepatic and intestinal egg counts, and the size and number of hepatic granulomata. The study suggests that S. mansoni egg-derived EVs could be a promising vaccine candidate against murine schistosomiasis.'
 'Mycetoma is a rare, chronic, and disabling disease that affects the subcutaneous tissue and skin. It is caused by fungi or bacteria and is endemic in the "Mycetoma Belt," which stretches from 15° South to 30° North latitude. The disease is more common in males aged 11–40 years and can cause bone involvement, which may require amputation. Diagnosis of mycetoma is challenging and requires a biopsy or culture of the affected area. The disease is known to be endemic in Africa, but there is limited data on its burden and associated complications in Uganda. This study aimed to estimate the burden of mycetoma in Uganda by reviewing biopsy reports at the Pathology Reference Laboratory at Makerere University and published literature on mycetoma in Uganda. The study found that the average incidence of mycetoma in Uganda was estimated at 0.32/100,000 persons and the prevalence at 8.32/100,000 persons per decade. The majority of cases were referred from surgical units, and the foot was the most affected part of the body. The study also found that fungi were the most common causative agents of mycetoma in Uganda, followed by Nocardia species and Actinomycetes. The study highlights the need for more systematic studies to define the true burden of mycetoma in Uganda and improve diagnosis and treatment outcomes. '
 'Malaria is a major public health problem in many countries around the world, and the emergence of simian malaria parasites in humans has become a growing concern. Simian malaria parasites are transmitted from non-human primates to humans, and the prevalence of these parasites in humans has been increasing in recent years. In Malaysia, simian malaria parasites are prevalent in macaques, and the prevalence of these parasites in humans has also been increasing. This study aimed to review the epidemiological studies of simian malaria in macaques in Malaysia over the past 20 years. The study identified seven epidemiological studies that were conducted in Malaysia from 2000 to 2021. The most prevalent Plasmodium species in macaques was P. inui, and the least prevalent was P. fieldi. The prevalence of simian malaria was higher in East Malaysia compared to Peninsular Malaysia. The mono, dual, and triple infection types were the most common among macaques. The study highlights the importance of understanding the epidemiology of simian malaria in macaques to prevent the transmission of these parasites from macaques to humans. The findings of this study can be used to develop effective strategies for the prevention and control of simian malaria in Malaysia.'
 'EBNA1 is a key antigen expressed in all EBV-associated tumors during latency that is required for maintenance of the EBV episome DNA and the regulation of viral gene transcription. However, the mechanism utilized by EBV to maintain latent infection at the levels of post-translational regulation remains largely unclear. In this study, we report that EBNA1 contains two SUMO-interacting motifs (SIMs) and mutation of SIM2, but not SIM3, dramatically disrupts the EBNA1 dimerization. SIM3 contributes to the polySUMO2 modification of EBNA1 at lysine 477 in vitro. Proteomic and immunoprecipitation analyses further reveal that the SIM3 motif is required for the EBNA1-mediated inhibitory effects on SUMO2-modified STUB1, SUMO2-mediated degradation of USP7, and SUMO1-modified KAP1. Deletion of the EBNASIM motif leads to functional loss of both EBNA1-mediated viral episome maintenance and lytic gene silencing. Importantly, hypoxic stress induces the SUMO2 modification of EBNA1, and in turn the dissociation of EBNA1 with STUB1, KAP1, and USP7 to increase the SUMO1 modification of both STUB1 and KAP1 for reactivation of lytic replication. Therefore, the EBNA1SIM plays an essential role in EBV latency and is a potential therapeutic target against EBV-associated cancers.'
 'Wheat is a staple crop for global food security. Improving our understanding of the genes regulating grain yield can contribute to the development of more productive wheat varieties. In this study, we identified the gene WAPO1 as the causal gene for a QTL affecting spikelet number per spike ( SNS ) on chromosome arm 7AL in multiple genome-wide association studies. We used mutants and transgenic plants to demonstrate that WAPO1 is the causal gene underpinning this QTL. Loss-of-function mutants wapo-A1 and wapo-B1 showed reduced SNS in tetraploid wheat, and the effect was exacerbated in wapo1 combining both mutations. By contrast, spikes of transgenic wheat plants carrying extra copies of WAPO-A1 driven by its native promoter had higher SNS, a more compact spike apical region and a smaller terminal spikelet than the wild type. Taken together, these results indicate that WAPO1 affects SNS by regulating the timing of terminal spikelet formation. Both transgenic and wapo1 mutant plants showed a wide range of floral abnormalities, indicating additional roles of WAPO1 on wheat floral development. We also found three widespread haplotypes in the QTL region, each associated with particular WAPO-A1 alleles. The H2 haplotype is associated with the strongest effects in increasing SNS and grain number per spikelet ( GNS ) ( H2>H3>H1 ) and is already present in most modern common wheat varieties but is rare in durum wheat, where it might be particularly useful to improve grain yield. Our results provide new insights into the genetic basis of wheat yield and highlight the potential of WAPO1 for improving grain yield in both common and durum wheat.'
 'Scrub typhus is a vector-borne zoonosis caused by Orientia spp. and transmitted by larvae of trombiculid mites, called chiggers. The disease mainly occurs within a region of the Asia-Pacific called the tsutsugamushi triangle, where rodents are known as the most relevant hosts for the trombiculid vector. However, the reservoir and vector of the scrub typhus outside Asia-Pacific are unknown. The disease has recently been discovered on and is considered endemic for Chiloé Island in southern Chile. The aim of the present work was to detect and determine the prevalence of chiggers on different rodent species captured in probable sites for the transmission of orientiae responsible for scrub typhus on Chiloé Island in southern Chile and to molecularly examine collected chiggers for the presence of Orientia DNA. During the austral summer 2018, rodents were live-trapped in six sites and examined for chigger infestation. All study sites were rural areas on Chiloé Island, previously identified as probable localities where human cases acquired the scrub typhus. During a total of 4,713 trap-nights, 244 rodents of seven species were captured: the most abundant was Abrothrix olivacea. Chiggers were detected on all seven rodent species with a 55% prevalence rate. Chiggers showed low host specificity and varied according to site specific host abundance. Three genera of trombiculids were identified. Herpetacarus was the most abundant genus (93%), prevalent in five of the six sites. Infestation rates showed site specific differences, which were statistically significant using a GLM model with binomial errors. Molecular analyses proved that 21 of 133 (15.8%) mite pools were positive for Orientia species, all of them belonged to the genus Herpetacarus. This study firstly reports the presence of different rodent-associated chigger mites positive for Orientia sp., in a region endemic for scrub typhus in southern Chile. Herpetacarus and two other genera of mites were found with high infestation rates of rodents in sites previously identified as probable exposure of scrub typhus cases. A substantial percentage of mite pools were positive for Orientia DNA, suggesting that chigger mites serve as vectors and reservoirs of this emerging zoonosis in South America.'
 'During the 2015–2017 Zika epidemic , dengue and chikungunya were also in circulation . Clinical presentation of these diseases can vary from person to person in terms of symptoms and severity , making it difficult to differentially diagnose them . Using basic principles of probability and empirical estimates of diagnostic sensitivity and specificity , we generated revised estimates of reported cases of Zika that accounted for the accuracy of diagnoses made on the basis of clinical presentation with or without laboratory confirmation . Applying this method to weekly reported case data from 43 countries throughout Latin America and the Caribbean , we estimated that 944 , 700 ( 95% CrI: 884 , 900–996 , 400 ) Zika cases occurred when assuming all confirmed cases were diagnosed using molecular methods versus 608 , 400 ( 95% CrI: 442 , 000–821 , 800 ) Zika cases that occurred when assuming all confirmed cases were diagnosed using serological methods . Our results imply that misdiagnosis was more common in countries with proportionally higher reported cases of dengue and chikungunya , such as Brazil . Given that Zika , dengue , and chikungunya appear likely to co-circulate in the Americas and elsewhere for years to come , our methodology has the potential to enhance the interpretation of passive surveillance data for these diseases going forward . Likewise , our methodology could also be used to help resolve transmission dynamics of other co-circulating diseases with similarities in symptomatology and potential for misdiagnosis .'
 'HBV is a DNA virus that causes both acute and chronic infections. Chronic hepatitis B (CHB) is a major public health problem affecting over 257 million people worldwide. HBV is an enveloped DNA virus belonging to the Hepadnaviridae family. The virion contains a 3.2-kb partially double-stranded (ds) relaxed circular (rc) DNA genome. Upon infection of a hepatocyte through the hepatocyte-specific receptor NTCP, the viral rcDNA is transported into the nucleus to form an episomal covalently closed circular DNA (cccDNA), which exists in a form of minichromosome. By utilizing the host RNA polymerase II, cccDNA transcribes five mRNAs with overlapping 3’ end, namely the 3.5-kb precore (pc) and pregenomic (pg) RNA, 2.4/2.1-kb surface mRNAs, and 0.7-kb X mRNA. HBV replicates its DNA genome via protein-primed reverse transcription of pgRNA, catalyzed by viral polymerase, in the cytoplasmic nucleocapsid. The newly synthesized rcDNA-containing nucleocapsid is enveloped by viral surface proteins and secreted through the cellular multivesicular body (MVB) secretory pathway to yield progeny virion. In addition to the mature, dsDNA-containing HBV nucleocapsid, a large number of genome-free empty virions and nonenveloped “naked” capsids can also be detected extracellularly. Except for the empty virion, it has been a long-standing dogma that only the mature, dsDNA-containing HBV nucleocapsid can be enveloped for virion secretion, while the immature nucleocapsids possess a putative single-strand blocking signal for envelopment. Interestingly, circulating HBV RNA has been detected in CHB patient blood since more than two decades ago, which may represent an exception to the dogma. Recently, one study reported that HBV RNA in patient serum or cell culture fluid is the encapsidated pgRNA present in virion. However, it did not rule out the contamination from naked capsids, which contain all types of HBV replicative intermediates. In line with this, another study showed that the extracellular HBV RNA are predominantly associated with naked capsids in cell cultures, but exist in capsid immunocomplexes and virions in patient sera. Thus, the physical presence of serum HBV RNA remains to be defined. Currently, nucleotide analogues (NAs) are prescribed for CHB, which could potently suppress HBV replication to even undetectable level, improve long-term outcome and reduce risks of liver cancer. However, HBV infection cannot be completely eliminated due to the paucity of direct antiviral effect of NAs on cccDNA. Given that NAs have no or little effect on the transcriptional activity of cccDNA, HBV RNAs are continuously produced under NA treatment, even if HBV DNA level becomes undetectable. Thus, HBV RNA, especially the pgRNA, may be a potential new marker for monitoring cccDNA activity in CHB. Recent studies have reported that serum HBV RNA level was associated with responses to pegylated interferon (peg-IFN) or NAs, and may guide the discontinuation of NA-therapy. However, the nature of serum HBV RNA remains elusive. It has been reported that extracellular HBV RNA contains pgRNA and spliced RNA variants in the supernatant of HBV-infected cell cultures and in CHB patient serum. Another study reported that the serum HBV RNA are of heterogeneous lengths, ranging from the full-length pgRNA to a few hundred nucleotides with 3’ end truncations. Therefore, the molecular characteristics of serum HBV RNA species needs to be fully defined and a standardized detection method is warranted. Moreover, if the encapsidated pgRNA could be enveloped, it is interesting to know how the HBV RNA virions are released from hepatocytes, and whether these RNA virions are infectious. Here, we report that HBV pgRNA-cont
 'Tuberculosis ( TB ) is a major public health concern, and the emergence of drug-resistant TB is a major cause of concern. To combat the host’s dynamic environment, Mtb encodes multiple DNA repair enzymes that play a critical role in maintaining genomic integrity. Mtb possesses a GC-rich genome, rendering it highly susceptible to cytosine deaminations, resulting in the occurrence of uracils in the DNA. UDGs encoded by ung and udgB initiate the repair; hence we investigated the biological impact of deleting UDGs in the adaptation of pathogen. We generated gene replacement mutants of uracil DNA glycosylases, individually ( RvΔung , RvΔudgB ) or together ( RvΔdKO ). The double KO mutant, RvΔdKO exhibited remarkably higher spontaneous mutation rate, in the presence of antibiotics. Interestingly, RvΔdKO showed higher survival rates in guinea pigs and accumulated large number of SNPs as revealed by whole-genome sequence analysis. Competition assays revealed the superior fitness of RvΔdKO over Rv, both in ex vivo and in vivo conditions. We propose that compromised DNA repair results in the accumulation of mutations, and a subset of these drives adaptation in the host. Importantly, this property allowed us to utilize RvΔdKO for the facile identification of drug targets. '
 'The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is a biological master clock composed of ~10,000 clock cells that are heterogeneous with respect to their circadian periods. Despite this inhomogeneity, an intact SCN maintains a very good degree of circadian phase (time) coherence, which is vital for sustaining various circadian rhythmic activities. It is supposedly achieved by not just one but a few different cell-to-cell coupling mechanisms, among which action potential (AP)-mediated connectivity is known to be essential. However, due to technical difficulties and limitations in experiments, so far very little information is available about the morphology of the connectivity at a cellular scale. Building upon this limited amount of information, here we exhaustively and systematically explore a large pool (~25,000) of various network morphologies to come up with some plausible network features of SCN networks. All candidates under consideration reflect an experimentally obtained 'indegree distribution' as well as a 'physical range distribution of afferent clock cells'. Then, importantly, with a set of multitude criteria based on the properties of SCN circadian phase waves in extrinsically perturbed as well as in their natural states, we select out appropriate model networks: Some important measures are, 1) level of phase dispersal and direction of wave propagation, 2) phase-resetting ability of the model networks subject to external circadian forcing, and 3) decay rate of perturbation induced "phase-singularities". The successful, realistic networks have several common features: 1) "indegree" and "outdegree" should have a positive correlation; 2) the cells in the SCN ventrolateral region (core) have a much larger total degree than that of the dorsal medial region (shell); 3) The number of intra-core edges is about 7.5 times that of intra-shell edges; and 4) the distance probability density function for the afferent connections fits well to a beta function. We believe that these newly identified network features would be a useful guide for future explorations on the very much unknown AP-mediated clock cell connectome within the SCN.'
 'To characterize the functional role of the left-ventral occipito-temporal cortex ( lvOT ) during reading in a quantitatively explicit and testable manner , we propose the lexical categorization model ( LCM ) . The LCM assumes that lvOT optimizes linguistic processing by allowing fast meaning access when words are familiar and filtering out orthographic strings without meaning . The LCM successfully simulates benchmark results from functional brain imaging described in the literature . In a second evaluation , we empirically demonstrate that quantitative LCM simulations predict lvOT activation better than alternative models across three functional magnetic resonance imaging studies . We found that word-likeness , assumed as input into a lexical categorization process , is represented posteriorly to lvOT , whereas a dichotomous word/non-word output of the LCM could be localized to the downstream frontal brain regions . Finally , training the process of lexical categorization resulted in more efficient reading . In sum , we propose that word recognition in the ventral visual stream involves word-likeness extraction followed by lexical categorization before one can access word meaning .'
 'The circadian clock is a biological system that regulates the timing of various physiological processes in living organisms. It is controlled by a group of clock genes that interact with each other in a complex network. The circadian clock is sensitive to external cues such as light and temperature, and it can be disrupted by factors such as shift work and jet lag. In this study, we used mathematical modeling to study the effects of shift work on the circadian clock and the immune system. We found that shift work can disrupt the circadian clock and lead to changes in the expression of clock genes and proteins. These changes can affect the immune system and lead to changes in the expression of cytokines, which are important signaling molecules involved in the immune response. We also found that the effects of shift work on the immune system can be sex-specific, with males and females exhibiting different responses. Our findings suggest that shift work can have negative effects on the immune system and that these effects may be more pronounced in males than in females. This information could be useful for developing strategies to mitigate the negative effects of shift work on the immune system.'
 'Dengue fever ( DF ) is a vector-borne disease that has become a major global problem in recent decades. The global incidence of DF has increased dramatically in the past two decades, with approximately 9,000 deaths reported annually. In Saudi Arabia, DF is endemic in the western region, where the majority of cases occur in Jeddah. The economic burden of DF has been largely overlooked, but recent studies have estimated the global economic burden of DF to be substantial. In this study, we estimated the economic burden of DF in Saudi Arabia from 2013 to 2017 by processing national data. We used a statistically validated predictive model to estimate direct costs, which are due to care-related expenditures, and indirect costs, which are due to productivity loss. We observed the highest estimated costs in 2016, with over US$168 million in total costs, including direct (US$29 million) and indirect (US$139 million) costs. The total DF COI for the five years was estimated as US$551 million for a total of 15,369 patients, resulting in an average cost of US$11,947.6 by patient. Depending on the year, productivity years loss costs accounted for 63.3% to 83.8% of the estimated total costs. The economic burden of DF is substantial and stresses the urgent need for an effective national prevention strategy to perform considerable cost-savings besides reducing morbidity.'
 'Lipid droplets are important for cellular functions such as energy storage and membrane growth. However, lipid droplets can also be harmful if they disrupt nuclear organization or trigger aggregation of hydrophobic proteins. In this study, the authors found that nuclear lipid droplets occur normally in C . elegans intestinal cells and germ cells, but are associated with damage only in the intestine. The authors used a forward genetic screen to isolate mutants with abnormally large or abundant nuclear lipid droplets. Genetic analysis and cloning of three such mutants showed that the genes encode the lipid regulator seipin, the inner nuclear membrane protein NEMP-1, and a component of COPI vesicles called COPA-1. The authors present several lines of evidence that the nuclear lipid droplet phenotype of copa-1 mutants results from a defect in retrieving mislocalized membrane proteins that normally reside in the endoplasmic reticulum. The seip-1 mutant causes most germ cells to have nuclear lipid droplets, the largest of which occupy more than a third of the nuclear volume. Nevertheless, the nuclear lipid droplets do not trigger apoptosis, and the germ cells differentiate into gametes that produce viable, healthy progeny. The authors' results suggest that nuclear lipid droplets are detrimental to intestinal nuclei, but have no obvious deleterious effect on germ nuclei. Their findings open new perspectives for the role of nuclear lipid droplets in cellular functions and disease.'
 'The Gram-positive bacterium Streptococcus pneumoniae ( pneumococcus ) is a leading cause of bacterial meningitis worldwide . Despite access to antibiotics and intensive care, the mortality rate in pneumococcal meningitis remains high, ranging from 10–40% depending on geographical region. Moreover, around 50% of the survivors suffer from permanent neurological damages, sequelae, after the infection has resolved. Little is known on mechanisms for how pneumococci interact with and damage neurons. Here, we studied mechanisms for pneumococcal interactions with neurons. Using human primary neurons, pull-down experiments and mass spectrometry, we show that pneumococci interact with the cytoskeleton protein β-actin through the pilus-1 adhesin RrgA and the cytotoxin pneumolysin ( Ply ) , thereby promoting adhesion and invasion of neurons, and neuronal death. Using our bacteremia-derived meningitis mouse model, we observe that RrgA- and Ply-expressing pneumococci co-localize with neuronal β-actin. Using purified proteins, we show that Ply, through its cholesterol-binding domain 4, interacts with the neuronal plasma membrane, thereby increasing the exposure on the outer surface of β-actin filaments, leading to more β-actin binding sites available for RrgA binding, and thus enhanced pneumococcal interactions with neurons. Pneumococcal infection promotes neuronal death possibly due to increased intracellular Ca2+ levels depending on presence of Ply, as well as on actin cytoskeleton disassembly. STED super-resolution microscopy showed disruption of β-actin filaments in neurons infected with pneumococci expressing RrgA and Ply. Finally, neuronal death caused by pneumococcal infection could be inhibited using antibodies against β-actin. The generated data potentially helps explaining mechanisms for why pneumococci frequently cause neurological sequelae.'
 'We studied the behavioral and brain-transcriptomic changes during a fight between two male Betta splendens fish. We found that the two opponents in each fighting pair showed a strong gene expression correlation after a 60-min fight, whereas those in a 20-min fight showed a weak correlation. Moreover, each fighting pair in the 60-min group showed pair-specific gene expression patterns in a grade of membership analysis and were grouped as a pair in the heatmap clustering. The observed pair-specific individualization in brain-transcriptomic synchronization suggested that this synchronization provides a physiological basis for the behavioral synchronization. An analysis using the synchronized genes in fighting pairs of the 60-min group found genes enriched for ion transport, synaptic function, and learning and memory. Our findings suggest that brain-transcriptomic synchronization could be a general phenomenon and may provide a new cornerstone with which to investigate coordinating and sustaining social interactions between two interacting partners of vertebrates.'
 'Recent research has identified several new viruses that are related to the viral family Totiviridae, which typically infects fungi or protozoans. These new viruses, however, are capable of infecting metazoans and may be capable of extracellular transmission. To better understand the structure and function of these viruses, researchers have used cryo-electron microscopy to determine the high-resolution structures of one of these new viruses, the Omono River virus (OmRV). The results show that OmRV has an unexpected protrusion at the five-fold vertex of the capsid, which may be associated with extracellular transmission. This study provides new insights into the structure and function of totivirus-like viruses and may help researchers develop new strategies for preventing and treating infections caused by these viruses.'
 'Ric-8B is a highly conserved protein that interacts with Gαs class subunits from heterotrimeric G proteins. In vitro, Ric-8B can work as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for both Gαs and Gαolf. In vivo, Ric-8B is predominantly expressed in the same tissues where Gαolf is expressed, indicating that these two proteins are functional partners. Previous studies have shown that complete knockout of the Ric-8B gene results in mice that are not viable and that die early during embryogenesis. Here, we show that Ric-8B mutant embryos are smaller than their wild type littermates, fail to close the neural tube in the cephalic region and die during mid-embryogenesis. Comparative transcriptome analysis revealed that signaling pathways involving GPCRs and G proteins are dysregulated in the Ric-8B mutant embryos. Interestingly, this analysis also revealed an unexpected impairment of the mTOR signaling pathway. Phosphorylation of Akt at Ser473 is downregulated in the Ric-8B mutant embryos, indicating a decreased activity of mTORC2. Knockdown of the endogenous Ric-8B gene in cultured cell lines leads to reduced phosphorylation levels of Akt (Ser473), further supporting the involvement of Ric-8B in mTORC2 activity. Our results reveal a crucial role for Ric-8B in development and provide novel insights into the signals that regulate mTORC2.'
 'Dengue fever is a common vector-borne disease that poses a significant public health threat in many tropical and subtropical regions of the world. The difficulty of predicting dengue outbreaks due to large variations in epidemic size across seasons has led to the development of an ensemble forecast system for dengue fever. This system is based on a susceptible-infected-recovered (SIR) type of compartmental model coupled with a data assimilation method called the ensemble adjusted Kalman filter (EAKF). The model was informed by meteorological and mosquito density information to depict the transmission of dengue virus among human and mosquito populations, and generate predictions. To account for the dramatic variations of outbreak size in different seasons, the effective population size parameter that is sequentially updated to adjust the predicted outbreak scale was introduced into the model. The proposed forecasting system was validated using retrospective forecasts of dengue outbreaks in Guangzhou, China during the 2011–2017 seasons. The results show that the system generates accurate projections of peak timing, peak intensity, and total incidence, outperforming a generalized additive model approach. The ensemble forecast system can be operated in real-time and inform control planning to reduce the burden of dengue fever.'
 'Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease that can cause nerve damage and skin lesions. The stigma associated with leprosy can have a major impact on the psychosocial wellbeing of persons affected and their family members. Resilience is a process that incorporates many of the core skills and abilities that may enable people to address stigma and discrimination. The current study aimed to develop and pilot an intervention to strengthen individual and family resilience against leprosy-related discrimination. The study was conducted in two sites, urban areas in Telangana state and rural areas in Odisha state, India. Persons affected and their family members were included using purposive sampling. Two questionnaires were used pre- and post-intervention: the Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC) and the WHOQOL-BREF. In addition, semi-structured interviews were conducted post-intervention. Data were collected at baseline, a few weeks after completion of the intervention, and in the Odisha cohort again at six months after completion. The study found a significant increase in CD-RISC scores for persons affected and family members from Odisha state, this improvement was maintained at six-month follow-up. There was no increase in CD-RISC scores post-intervention among participants from Telangana state. WHOQOL-BREF scores were significantly higher at follow-up for persons affected in both states, and for family members in Odisha state. No families dropped out of the study. In the qualitative feedback, all participants described drawing benefit from the programme. Participants especially appreciated the social dimensions of the intervention. The study showed that the 10-week family-based intervention to strengthen resilience among persons affected by leprosy and their family members was feasible and has the potential to improve resilience and quality of life. A large-scale efficacy trial is necessary to determine the effectiveness and long-term sustainability of the intervention.'
 'In budding yeast , the protein shugoshin ( Sgo1 ) helps to ensure that sister chromatids are properly attached to the mitotic spindle and segregate during cell division . To do this, Sgo1 recruits the protein phosphatase PP2A-Rts1 and the condensin complex to centromeres. Using peptide prints, the authors identified a Serine-Rich Motif ( SRM ) in Sgo1 that is essential for its interaction with condensin. They also found that this interaction is regulated by phosphorylation within the SRM. The authors present evidence that the central kinase Mps1 directly phosphorylates Sgo1 within the SRM to regulate the interaction with condensin and thereby condensin localization to centromeres. The authors propose that tightly regulated presence of condensin on centromeres is essential for correct chromosome segregation and is mediated via its interaction with Sgo1.'
 'Computational prediction tools are commonly used to identify T cell epitopes for applications such as vaccine design, cancer neoantigen identification, and development of diagnostics. Most prediction tools are based on machine learning algorithms trained on MHC binding or naturally processed MHC ligand elution data. In this study, we used a recently published dataset that systematically defined T cell epitopes recognized in vaccinia virus (VACV) infected C57BL/6 mice to evaluate the performance of all currently publicly available computational T cell epitope prediction tools. We found that all methods were able to improve epitope identification above random, with the best performance achieved by neural network-based predictions trained on both MHC binding and MHC ligand elution data. These methods were able to capture more than half of the major epitopes in the top N = 277 predictions within the N = 767, 788 predictions made for distinct peptides of relevant lengths that can theoretically be encoded in the VACV proteome. These performance metrics provide guidance for immunologists as to which prediction methods to use and what success rates are possible for epitope predictions when considering a highly controlled system of administered immunizations to inbred mice. In addition, this benchmark was implemented in an open and easy to reproduce format, providing developers with a framework for future comparisons against new tools.'
 'This study aimed to investigate whether obesity-associated DNA methylation in blood is reflected in spermatozoa from obese males. We profiled genome-wide DNA methylation using the Illumina MethylationEPIC array in a cross-sectional study of matched human blood and sperm from lean ( discovery n = 47; replication n = 21 ) and obese ( n = 22 ) males to analyse tissue covariation of DNA methylation, and identify obesity-associated methylomic signatures. We found that DNA methylation signatures of human blood and spermatozoa are highly discordant, and methylation levels are correlated at only a minority of CpG sites ( ~1% ). At the majority of these sites, DNA methylation appears to be influenced by genetic variation. Obesity-associated DNA methylation in blood was not generally reflected in spermatozoa, and obesity was not associated with altered covariation patterns or accelerated epigenetic ageing in the two tissues. However, one cross-tissue obesity-specific hypermethylated site ( cg19357369; chr4:2429884; P = 8 . 95 × 10−8; 2% DNA methylation difference ) was identified, warranting replication and further investigation. When compared to a wide range of human somatic tissue samples, spermatozoa displayed differential DNA methylation across pathways enriched in transcriptional regulation. Overall, human sperm displays a unique DNA methylation profile that is highly discordant to, and practically uncorrelated with, that of matched peripheral blood. We observed that obesity was only nominally associated with differential DNA methylation in sperm, and therefore suggest that spermatozoal DNA methylation is an unlikely mediator of intergenerational effects of metabolic traits. '
 ' Reovirus is a neurotropic virus that causes lethal encephalitis in newborn animals. To understand how reovirus enters and moves within neurons, we used primary neuron cultures and microfluidic devices. We found that reovirus enters neurons through macropinocytosis, a process that is different from clathrin-mediated endocytosis used by reovirus in non-neuronal cells. Reovirus moves retrograde but not anterograde in axons, and this movement is mediated by dynein. We also found that reovirus moves in non-acidic vesicles that acidify after reaching the soma, allowing virion disassembly and entry into the cytoplasm. These findings provide insights into the mechanisms of reovirus neuronal entry and transport, and may help in the development of interventions that block early steps in infection. '
 'A new study has identified a previously unidentified conserved epitope on the surface protein of the malaria parasite that could be targeted by prophylactic antibodies and exploited in structure-based vaccine design. The study used seven monoclonal antibodies isolated from volunteers immunized with the RTS, S/AS01 vaccine to map the epitopes on the C-terminal domain of the protein. Competition and crystal structure studies indicated that the antibodies target two different sites on opposite faces of the protein. One site contains a polymorphic region that has been previously characterized, while the second is a previously undescribed site on the conserved β-sheet face of the protein. Antibodies to the β-site demonstrated broad reactivity with a diverse panel of peptides derived from field isolates of the malaria parasite, while antibodies to the α-site showed very limited cross reactivity. Importantly, an antibody to the β-site demonstrated inhibition activity against malaria infection in a murine model. The study identifies a previously unidentified conserved epitope on the surface protein of the malaria parasite that could be targeted by prophylactic antibodies and exploited in structure-based vaccine design.'
 'Lysine malonylation is a type of protein modification that regulates many cellular processes. However, little is known about the differences in lysine malonylation between different strains of Toxoplasma gondii, a parasite that causes toxoplasmosis in humans and animals. In this study, we used liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and immuno-affinity purification to compare the levels of lysine malonylation in three different strains of Toxoplasma gondii: RH (type I), PRU (type II), and VEG (type III). We found that there were significant differences in the levels of lysine malonylation between the three strains, with the most differences being found between RH and PRU strains. These differences were found in proteins involved in key processes such as protein metabolism, stress response, glycolysis, and actin cytoskeleton. Our findings suggest that lysine malonylation plays a role in the differences in virulence and repertoire of virulence factors between different strains of Toxoplasma gondii. This study provides new insight into the role of lysine malonylation in the pathogenesis of Toxoplasma gondii.'
 'Nematodes are parasitic worms that infect over 1.5 billion people worldwide and cause significant public health problems. There is a need for new, more effective anthelmintic drugs. In this study, we identified a new type of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) on the nematode pharynx that is a potential new drug target. This receptor is composed of five non-Î± EAT-2 subunits and is not sensitive to existing cholinomimetic anthelmintics. We found that EAT-18, a novel auxiliary subunit protein, is essential for functional expression of the receptor. EAT-18 directly interacts with the mature receptor and different homologs alter the pharmacological properties. Thus we have described not only a novel potential drug target but also a new type of obligate auxiliary protein for nAChRs.'
 'HIV-1 infects CD4 T lymphocytes ( CD4TL ) through binding the chemokine receptors CCR5 or CXCR4 . CXCR4-using viruses are considered more pathogenic , linked to accelerated depletion of CD4TL and progression to AIDS . However , counterexamples to this paradigm are common , suggesting heterogeneity in the virulence of CXCR4-using viruses . Here , we investigated the role of the CXCR4 chemokine CXCL12 as a driving force behind virus virulence . In vitro , CXCL12 prevents HIV-1 from binding CXCR4 and entering CD4TL , but its role in HIV-1 transmission and propagation remains speculative . Through analysis of thirty envelope glycoproteins ( Envs ) from patients at different stages of infection , mostly treatment-naïve , we first interrogated whether sensitivity of viruses to inhibition by CXCL12 varies over time in infection . Results show that Envs resistant ( RES ) to CXCL12 are frequent in patients experiencing low CD4TL levels , most often late in infection , only rarely at the time of primary infection . Sensitivity assays to soluble CD4 or broadly neutralizing antibodies further showed that RES Envs adopt a more closed conformation with distinct antigenicity , compared to CXCL12-sensitive ( SENS ) Envs . At the level of the host cell , our results suggest that resistance is not due to improved fusion or binding to CD4 , but owes to viruses using particular CXCR4 molecules weakly accessible to CXCL12 . We finally asked whether the low CD4TL levels in patients are related to increased pathogenicity of RES viruses . Resistance actually provides viruses with an enhanced capacity to enter naive CD4TL when surrounded by CXCL12 , which mirrors their situation in lymphoid organs , and to deplete bystander activated effector memory cells . Therefore , RES viruses seem more likely to deregulate CD4TL homeostasis . This work improves our understanding of the pathophysiology and the transmission of HIV-1 and suggests that RES viruses’ receptors could represent new therapeutic targets to help prevent CD4TL depletion in HIV+ patients on cART .'
 'Zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis ( ZCL ) is a disease caused by parasites transmitted by sand flies. It is endemic in Palestine and is transmitted by Phlebotomus sand flies that inhabit dens of hyraxes, the reservoir animal. Control measures have been implemented since 1996 but cases still occur. We estimated the effect of insecticide thermal fogging inside hyrax dens on sand fly density and leishmania infection. We conducted a 12-week controlled interrupted time series study in two control and one intervention sites containing three hyrax dens each. We implemented Permethrin thermal fogging in the intervention site at week 6. We measured weekly and 36hrs post-intervention sand fly abundance inside dens using CDC light traps. We performed Next-Generation Sequencing to identify sand fly Leishmania spp. infection. We calculated the abundance reduction ( AR ) using Mulla’s formula and negative binomial regression. We report a 74% reduction in Phlebotomus spp. density and a 74% reduction in Leishmania infection prevalence in the intervention site during the 5-week post-intervention period. Fogging hyrax dens could be an effective source-reduction measure for ZCL vectors. Future randomized controlled trials are needed to confirm the effectiveness of fogging hyrax dens on decreasing ZCL incidence.'
 'Foot-and-mouth disease virus ( FMDV ) is a highly contagious virus that affects cloven-hoofed animals, including cattle, pigs, and sheep. The 5′ untranslated region ( 5′ UTR ) of the FMDV genome is longer than in other picornaviruses and contains multiple putative pseudoknots ( PKs ) linked in tandem. The role of the PKs in the FMDV life cycle is not fully understood. In this study, the authors used bioinformatics, sub-genomic replicons, and recombinant viruses to investigate the structural conservation and importance of the PKs in the FMDV lifecycle. Their results show that despite the conservation of two or more PKs across all FMDVs, a replicon lacking PKs was replication competent, albeit at reduced levels. Furthermore, in competition experiments, GFP FMDV replicons with less than two ( 0 or 1 ) PKs were outcompeted by a mCherry FMDV wt replicon that had 4 PKs, whereas GFP replicons with 2 or 4 PKs were not. This apparent replicative advantage offered by the additional PKs correlates with the maintenance of at least two PKs in the genomes of FMDV field isolates. Despite a replicon lacking any PKs retaining the ability to replicate, viruses completely lacking PK were not viable, and at least one PK was essential for recovery of infections virus, suggesting a role for the PKs in virion assembly. Thus, the authors' study points to roles for the PKs in both vRNA replication and virion assembly, thereby improving understanding of the molecular biology of FMDV replication and the wider roles of PK in RNA functions.'
 'Praziquantel ( PZQ ) is the only recommended drug for infection and disease caused by the schistosome species that infects humans. The current tablet formulation is not suitable for pre-school age children mainly due to its bitterness and the large tablet size. We assessed the palatability of two new orally disintegrating tablet ( ODT ) formulations of PZQ. This randomized , single-blind , crossover , swill-and-spit palatability study ( NCT02315352 ) was carried out at a single school in Tanzania in children aged 6–11 years old , with or without schistosomiasis infection as this was not part of the assessment. Children were stratified according to age group ( 6–8 years or 9–11 years ) and gender , then randomized to receive each formulation in a pre-specified sequence. Over 2 days , the children assessed the palatability of Levo-Praziquantel ( L-PZQ ) ODT 150 mg and Racemate Praziquantel ( Rac-PZQ ) ODT 150 mg disintegrated in the mouth without water on the first day , and L-PZQ and Rac-PZQ dispersed in water and the currently available PZQ 600 mg formulation ( PZQ-Cesol ) crushed and dispersed in water on the second day . The palatability of each formulation was rated using a 100 mm visual analogue scale ( VAS ) incorporating a 5-point hedonic scale , immediately after spitting out the test product ( VASt = 0 primary outcome ) and after 2–5 minutes ( VASt = 2–5 ) . In total , 48 children took part in the assessment. Overall , there was no reported difference in the VASt = 0 between the two ODT formulations ( p = 0 . 106 ) without water . Higher VASt = 0 and VASt = 2–5 scores were reported for L-PZQ ODT compared with Rac-PZQ ODT in older children ( p = 0 . 046 and p = 0 . 026 , respectively ) . The VASt = 0 and VASt = 2–5 were higher for both ODT formulations compared with the standard formulation of PZQ ( p<0 . 001 for both time points ) . No serious adverse events were reported. The new paediatric-friendly formulations dispersed in water were both found to be more palatable than the existing standard formulation of PZQ. There may be gender and age effects on the assessment of palatability. Further research is needed for assessing efficacy and tolerability of the newly ODTs Praziquantel drug in younger children. The trial was registered on ClinicalTrials . gov ( NCT02315352 ) and in the Pan African Clinical Trials Registry ( PACTR201412000959159 ) .'
 'Herpesviruses are a leading cause of human viral disease, second only to influenza and cold viruses. The herpesviridae family includes nine human pathogens and a diverse set of animal herpesviruses. Among these, latent herpes simplex type 1 ( HSV-1 ) and herpes simplex type 2 ( HSV-2 ) infections frequently reactivate to result in recurrent acute oral and genital lesions, as well as encephalitis. Varicella-zoster virus ( VZV ) can reactivate decades after the initial infection and may result in painful and debilitating recurrences of shingles. Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) and Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) are associated with oncogenic transformation. Human cytomegalovirus ( CMV ) is a leading cause of birth defects and transplant failures. There are no effective drugs for CMV without significant toxicities, and resistance to existing anti-CMV drugs is widespread. Herpesvirus infections are lifelong, with latency periods between recurrent reactivations, making treatment difficult. Currently approved herpetic antiviral agents target and disrupt multiple aspects of the viral life cycle, except for DNA release into the cell nucleus. In this work, we discovered that the mechanically stressed and pressurized state of strongly confined viral DNA packaged in a herpesvirus capsid presents an evolutionarily static target for antiviral therapies that is likely impervious to developing drug resistance. This work serves as a proof-of-concept to demonstrate the feasibility of a new antiviral target—suppressing pressure-driven viral genome ejection—that is likely impervious to developing drug resistance. This pivotal finding presents a platform for discovery of a new class of broad-spectrum treatments for herpesviruses and other viral infections with genome-pressure-dependent replication. A biophysical approach to antiviral treatment such as this is also a vital strategy to prevent the spread of emerging viruses where vaccine development is challenged by high mutation rates or other evasion mechanisms.'
 'Lymphatic filariasis (LF) is a parasitic disease caused by the nematode Wuchereria bancrofti and transmitted by the bites of infected mosquitoes. The disease is endemic in 72 countries, including India, where it affects 610 million people. The National Filariasis Elimination Programme in India has been implemented since 2004, with the main strategy being mass drug administration (MDA) with diethylcarbamazine citrate (DEC) and albendazole. In addition to MDA, integrated vector management (IVM) is recommended to reduce the vector population. However, the impact of MDA on transmission has not been fully assessed in some areas, including the Nicobar Islands in India. Molecular xenomonitoring (MX) is a surveillance tool that can be used to evaluate the impact of MDA on transmission. In this study, we used different mosquito sampling devices to collect Aedes niveus mosquitoes in the Nicobar Islands. We then used a molecular assay to detect W. bancrofti DNA in the mosquitoes. Our results showed that the molecular assay was more sensitive than microscopy for detecting W. bancrofti infection in Ae. niveus mosquitoes. We also found that the most productive mosquito sampling device was the Biogent Sentinel trap. Our study highlights the importance of using appropriate mosquito sampling devices and molecular assays for evaluating the impact of MDA on transmission in areas with diurnally sub-periodic W. bancrofti.'
 'CREB-binding protein ( CBP ) is a protein that plays a crucial role in regulating gene expression. However, the mechanisms that control its activity are not well understood. In this study, we found that the protein USP12 interacts with CBP and inhibits its acetyltransferase activity. We also found that USP12 positively regulates interferon ( IFN ) antiviral signaling independently of its deubiquitinase activity. Furthermore, we discovered that USP12 translocates from the cytoplasm to the nucleus during IFN signaling, which inhibits the dephosphorylation effects of TCPTP on pY701-STAT1 and maintains nuclear pY701-STAT1 levels. Our findings provide new insights into the regulation of CBP acetyltransferase activity and may lead to new strategies for IFN-based antiviral therapy. '
 'We identified two orthobunyaviruses, Melao virus (MELV) and Oropouche virus (OROV), in plasma specimens from Haitian children with acute febrile illness who presented during outbreaks caused by alpha- and flaviviruses in 2014. MELV was isolated in cell culture from the plasma of five case patients, while OROV RNA was detected in the plasma of an additional child using an unbiased sequencing approach. Abdominal pain was reported by four case patients with MELV infections, with lymphadenopathy noted in two cases. Our findings document the occurrence of these orthobunyaviruses within the Caribbean region and highlight the critical importance of surveillance with viral genome sequence analyses to identify outbreaks caused by these and other emerging viruses.'
 'The COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant global disruption and has resulted in the deaths of millions of people worldwide. The spike protein of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is a major target for COVID-19 vaccines. To quickly respond to the outbreak of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, a nucleic acid-based vaccine is a novel option beyond the traditional inactivated virus vaccine or recombinant protein vaccine. Here, we report a DNA vaccine containing the spike gene for delivery via electroporation. The spike genes of SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 were codon optimized for mammalian cell expression and then cloned into mammalian cell expression vectors, called pSARS-S and pSARS2-S, respectively. Spike protein expression was confirmed by immunoblotting after transient expression in HEK293T cells. After immunization, sera were collected for antigen-specific antibody and neutralizing antibody titer analyses. We found that both pSARS-S and pSARS2-S immunization induced similar levels of antibodies against S2 of SARS-CoV-2. In contrast, only pSARS2-S immunization induced antibodies against the receptor-binding domain of SARS-CoV-2. We further found that pSARS2-S immunization, but not pSARS-S immunization, could induce very high titers of neutralizing antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. We further analyzed SARS-CoV-2 S protein-specific T cell responses and found that the immune responses were biased toward Th1. Importantly, pSARS2-S immunization in hamsters could induce protective immunity against SARS-CoV-2 challenge in vivo. These data suggest that DNA vaccination could be a promising approach for protecting against COVID-19.'
 'Lymphatic filariasis (LF) is a neglected tropical disease that causes permanent disability through chronic manifestations of lymphedema, elephantiasis, and hydrocele. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that morbidity management and disability prevention (MMDP) services should be included in the basic primary healthcare package. However, progress towards establishing and streamlining MMDP services still remains considerably slow, particularly in the African region. This study aimed to document health beliefs and health seeking behavior towards MMDP services for LF in Luangwa District, Zambia. The study found that community members had limited knowledge of MMDP services and believed that the chronic manifestations of LF were caused by contact with animal faeces, use of traditional herbal aphrodisiacs, witchcraft, and sexual contact with women who were menstruating or had miscarried. The study also found that community members opted to visit traditional healers before going to health facilities. The study recommends that LF programs should promote strategies that seek to empower patients and community members with the required information to access and use the MMDP services at the health facilities, as well as adhere to self-care practices in their households.'
 'The Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 ( HTLV-1 ) is a retrovirus that infects CD4+ T-cells and causes adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma ( ATL ) and a neurological disorder called HAM/TSP . HTLV-1 is transmitted through cell-to-cell contact, and the viral accessory protein p8 is important for this process. In this study, the authors identified vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein ( VASP ) as a novel interaction partner of p8. VASP is a protein that promotes actin filament elongation and is important for cell motility. The authors found that VASP interacts with p8 through its EVH1 domain and that this interaction is important for p8 and HTLV-1 Gag transfer between cells. The authors also found that repression of VASP by gene editing strategies impaired p8 and HTLV-1 Gag transfer between cells. These findings suggest that VASP is important for HTLV-1 cell-to-cell transmission and persistence in vivo.'
 'Tinnitus is a common form of auditory hallucinations that affects the quality of life of many people. It can manifest as a "ringing" or hissing sound across a certain frequency range, typically with a distinct spectral peak. An observable hearing loss, causing sensory deprivation over a band of frequencies, is present in over 90% of people with tinnitus. We used an objective-driven learning algorithm to model an early auditory processing neuronal network, e.g., in the dorsal cochlear nucleus. We show that the connectivity patterns and responses learned by the model display several hallmarks of early auditory neuronal networks. We further demonstrate that attenuation of peripheral inputs drives the recurrent network towards its critical point and transition into a tinnitus-like state. In this state, the network activity resembles responses to genuine inputs even in the absence of external stimulation, namely, it "hallucinates" auditory responses. These findings demonstrate how objective-driven plasticity mechanisms that normally act to optimize the network's input representation can also elicit pathologies such as tinnitus as a result of sensory deprivation.'
 'Porcine hemagglutinating encephalomyelitis virus ( PHEV ) is a highly neurotropic coronavirus that causes encephalomyelitis and vomiting and wasting disease ( VWD ) in neonatal pigs. In this study, we found that BALB/c mice are susceptible to intranasal PHEV infection and show distinct neurological manifestations, including significant smell and taste dysfunction. By tracking neuroinvasion, we identified that PHEV invades the CNS via the olfactory nerve and trigeminal nerve located in the nasal cavity, and olfactory sensory neurons are susceptible to viral infection. Immunofluorescence staining and ultrastructural observations revealed that viral materials traveling along axons suggest axonal transport may engage in rapid viral transmission in the CNS. Furthermore, viral replication in the olfactory system and CNS is associated with inflammatory and immune responses, tissue disorganization, and dysfunction. Overall, we proposed that PHEV may serve as a potential prototype for elucidating the pathogenesis of coronavirus-associated neurological complications and olfactory and taste disorders.'
20-hydroxyecdysone ( 20E ) is a steroid hormone that regulates metamorphosis in holometabolous insects. In the present study, the authors used Helicoverpa armigera, cotton bollworm, as a model to investigate the role of 20E in regulating glucometabolism and fat body programmed cell death ( PCD ) during metamorphosis. They found that 20E upregulated the expression of Krüppel-like factor ( KLF15 ) to promote autophagy and apoptosis in the larval fat body during metamorphosis. KLF15 promoted autophagic flux and transited to apoptosis. KLF15 bound to the KLF binding site ( KLF bs ) in the promoter of Atg8 ( autophagy-related gene 8/LC3 ) to upregulate Atg8 expression. Knockdown Atg8 reduced free fatty acids ( FFAs ), glycerol, free amino acids ( FAAs ), and glucose levels. However, knockdown of Klf15 accumulated FFAs, glycerol, and FAAs. Glycolysis was switched to gluconeogenesis, trehalose and glycogen synthesis were changed to degradation during metamorphosis, which were accompanied by the variation of the related genes expression. Taken together, 20E via KLF15 integrated autophagy and gluconeogenesis by promoting autophagy-related and gluconeogenesis-related genes expression.
 'The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has emerged as the most challenging global health crisis within a century. Vaccination is the most promising strategy to end the pandemic. The primary vaccine target is the SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) protein, which is exposed on the viral surface and mediates viral entry into the host cell. To identify possible antibody binding sites, we performed multi-microsecond molecular dynamics simulations of a 4.1 million atom system containing a patch of viral membrane with four full-length, fully glycosylated and palmitoylated S proteins. By mapping steric accessibility, structural rigidity, sequence conservation, and generic antibody binding signatures, we recover known epitopes on S and reveal promising epitope candidates for structure-based vaccine design. We find that the extensive and inherently flexible glycan coat shields a surface area larger than expected from static structures, highlighting the importance of structural dynamics. Our computational epitope-mapping procedure is general and should thus prove useful for other viral envelope proteins whose structures have been characterized. Thanks to the extraordinary response of the global scientific community, we already have atomistic structures of S and detailed views of the viral envelope. However, static structures do not capture conformational changes of S or the motion of the highly dynamic glycans covering it. Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations add a dynamic picture of S and its glycan shield. Intriguingly, several groups have shown experimentally that glycans not only shield the S protein but also play a role in the infection mechanism. Here, we report on the 2.5 μs-long MD simulation of a full-length atomistic model of four S trimers in the prefusion conformation, amounting to 10 μs of S dynamics. The model includes the transmembrane domain (TMD) embedded in a complex lipid bilayer, along with realistic post-translational modification patterns, i.e., glycosylation of the ectodomain and palmitoylation of the TMD. Although independently developed, we have recently shown that our S protein model and its structural dynamics are in quantitative agreement with recent high-resolution electron cryo-tomography (cryoET) reconstructions. Intact virions present their S proteins either individually (i.e., with surrounding S proteins removed), in small groups, or in large clusters, in a strikingly random distribution. To quantify the effect of this heterogeneous distribution, we analyzed the accessibility of S epitopes both in isolation (i.e., with surrounding S proteins removed) and in the dense packing of our simulation model. We identify epitope candidates on SARS-CoV-2 S by combining information on steric accessibility and structural flexibility with bioinformatic assessments of sequence conservation and epitope characteristics. We recover known epitopes in the ACE2 receptor-binding domain (RBD) and identify several epitope candidates on the spike surface that are exposed, structured, and conserved in sequence. In particular, target sites for antibodies emerge in the functionally important S2 domain harboring the fusion machinery. Our results provide a detailed understanding of the exposed viral surface and will be instrumental for structure-based rational design of vaccines and therapeutics.'
 'The COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant disruptions worldwide, and the development of effective treatments is a top priority. One potential treatment option is the use of type I interferons (IFNs), which are known to have antiviral properties. In this study, researchers tested the efficacy of IFN-α in the Syrian hamster model of COVID-19. They found that administering IFN-α one day before or one day after infection significantly reduced weight loss and viral lung titers. However, administering IFN-α three days after the onset of symptoms had no impact on the clinical course of the infection. These results suggest that early administration of IFN-α is beneficial, while late administration is ineffective. This information could be useful for the design and interpretation of clinical trials testing the efficacy of IFN-α in treating COVID-19 patients.'
 'Schistosomiasis is a snail-borne parasitic disease that affects over 250 million people worldwide. The disease is caused by blood trematodes of the genus Schistosoma and is transmitted by freshwater snails belonging to the genera Biomphalaria and Bulinus. The identification of these snail species is crucial for accurate epidemiological studies and the control of schistosomiasis. In this study, we evaluated the use of MALDI-TOF MS for the identification of both frozen and ethanol-stored snails using protein extracts from different body parts. Our results showed that MALDI-TOF MS is a reliable tool for the rapid identification of snails without any malacological expertise. This study is the first to show that MALDI-TOF MS can be used to identify ethanol-stored snails using proteins extracted from the foot. Our findings suggest that MALDI-TOF MS could be a valuable tool for the identification of snails involved in schistosome transmission.'
 'Food and water-borne illness caused by ingestion of ( oo ) cysts of Cryptosporidium and Giardia is a major health problem globally . Several methods are available to detect Giardia cyst and Cryptosporidium oocyst in food and water . However, these methods require a good laboratory facility and well-trained manpower and are therefore costly . We developed a smartphone-based microscopic assay method to screen ( oo ) cysts of Cryptosporidium and Giardia contamination of vegetable and water samples . The method consists of a ball lens of 1 mm diameter, white LED as illumination source, and Lugols's iodine staining, which provides magnification and contrast capable of distinguishing ( oo ) cysts of Cryptosporidium and Giardia . The analytical performance of the method was tested by spike recovery experiments. The spike recovery results are comparable with data obtained using commercial brightfield and fluorescence microscope methods. Finally, we tested the smartphone microscope system for detecting ( oo ) cysts on 7 types of vegetable ( n = 196 ) and river water ( n = 18 ) samples. Forty-two percent vegetable and thirty-nine percent water samples were found to be contaminated with Cryptosporidium oocyst . Similarly, thirty-one percent vegetable and thirty-three percent water samples were contaminated with Giardia cyst . The newly developed smartphone microscopic method showed comparable performance to commercial microscopic methods. The new method can be a low-cost and easy to implement alternative method for simultaneous detection of ( oo ) cysts in vegetable and water samples in resource limited settings .'
 'Echinococcosis is a zoonotic parasitic disease caused by larval stages of cestodes belonging to the genus Echinococcus . The infection affects people’s health and safety as well as agropastoral sector . In China , human echinococcosis is a major public health burden , especially in western China . Echinococcosis affects people health as well as agricultural and pastoral economy . Therefore , it is important to understand the prevalence status and spatial distribution of human echinococcosis in order to advance our knowledge of basic information for prevention and control measures reinforcement . Report data on echinococcosis were collected in 370 counties in China in 2018 and were used to assess prevalence and spatial distribution . The prevalence rate of human echinococcosis was 10.57 per 10,000 . Analysis of the disease prevalence showed obvious spatial positive autocorrelation in globle spatial autocorrelation with two aggregation modes in local spatial autocorrelation , namely high-high and low-high aggregation areas . The high-high gathering areas were mainly concentrated in northern Tibet , western Qinghai , and Ganzi in the Tibetan Autonomous Region and in Sichuan . The low-high clusters were concentrated in Gamba , Kangma and Yadong counties of Tibet . In addition , spatial scanning analysis revealed two spatial clusters . One type of spatial clusters included 71 counties in Tibet Autonomous Region , 22 counties in Qinghai , 11 counties in Sichuan , three counties in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region , two counties in Yunnan , and one county in Gansu . In the second category , six types of spatial clusters were observed in the counties of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region , and the Qinghai , Gansu , and Sichuan Provinces . This study showed a serious prevalence of human echinococcosis with obvious spatial aggregation of the disease prevalence in China . The Qinghai-Tibet Plateau is the "hot spot" area of human echinococcosis in China . Findings from this study indicate that there is an urgent need of joint strategies to strengthen efforts for the prevention and control of echinococcosis in China , especially in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau .'
 'Network-based intervention strategies can be effective and cost-efficient approaches to curtailing harmful contagions in myriad settings . However, these strategies are often impractical to implement as they typically assume complete knowledge of the network structure, which is unusual in practice. In this paper, we investigate how different immunization strategies perform under realistic conditions—where the strategies are informed by partially-observed network data. Our results suggest that global immunization strategies, like degree immunization, are optimal in most cases; the exception is at very high levels of missing data, where stochastic strategies, like acquaintance immunization, begin to outstrip them in minimizing outbreaks. Stochastic strategies are more robust in some cases due to the different ways in which they can be affected by missing data. In fact, one of our proposed variants of acquaintance immunization leverages a logistically-realistic ongoing survey-intervention process as a form of targeted data-recovery to improve with increasing levels of missing data. These results support the effectiveness of targeted immunization as a general practice. They also highlight the risks of considering networks as idealized mathematical objects: overestimating the accuracy of network data and foregoing the rewards of additional inquiry.'
 'Extracellular recording is a technique used to study the brain physiology and pathology . As the number of recording channels and their density increases, it is important to understand how much improvement the additional channels bring and how to optimally use the new capabilities for monitoring the brain . In this study, the authors show that for any given distribution of electrodes, it is possible to determine exactly what information about current sources in the brain can be recovered and what information is strictly unobservable. They demonstrate this in the general setting of the kernel Current Source Density method and illustrate it with simplified examples as well as using evoked potentials from the barrel cortex obtained with a Neuropixels probe and with compatible model data. The authors show that with conceptual separation of the estimation space from experimental setup, it is possible to recover sources not accessible to standard methods.'
 'Co-infection of multiple Plasmodium species is regularly observed, but there is limited understanding of between-species interactions. In particular, little is known about the effects of multiple Plasmodium species co-infections on gametocyte production. We developed molecular assays for detecting asexual and gametocyte stages of Pf, Pv, Pm, and Po. This is the first description of molecular diagnostics for Pm and Po gametocytes. These assays were implemented in a unique epidemiological setting in Papua New Guinea with sympatric transmission of all four Plasmodium species, permitting a comprehensive investigation of species interactions. The observed frequency of Pf-Pv co-infection for asexual parasites was higher than expected from individual prevalence rates. The observed frequency of co-infection with Pf and Pv gametocytes was also higher than expected from individual prevalence rates. The excess risk of co-infection was 1.38 (95% confidence interval: 1.09, 1.67) for all parasites and 1.37 (95% confidence interval: 0.95, 1.79) for gametocytes. This excess co-infection risk was partially attributable to malaria infections clustering in some villages. Pf-Pv-Pm triple infections were four times more frequent than expected by chance alone, which could not be fully explained by infections clustering in highly exposed individuals. Beyond this, no general prevailing pattern of suppression or facilitation was identified in pairwise analysis of gametocytemia and parasitemia of the four species. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, Trial ID: NCT02143934.'
 'Effective and powerful survival mediation models are currently lacking. To partly fill such knowledge gap, we proposed IUSMMT ( intersection-union survival mixture-adjusted mediation test ) to effectively examine the existence of mediation effect by fitting an empirical three-component mixture null distribution. With extensive simulation studies, we demonstrated the advantage of IUSMMT over existing methods. We applied IUSMMT to ten TCGA cancers and identified multiple genes that exhibited mediating effects. We further revealed that most of the identified regions, in which genes behaved as active mediators, were cancer type-specific and exhibited a full mediation from DNA methylation CpG sites to the survival risk of various types of cancers. Overall, IUSMMT represents an effective and powerful alternative for survival mediation analysis; our results also provide new insights into the functional role of DNA methylation and gene expression in cancer progression/prognosis and demonstrate potential therapeutic targets for future clinical practice.'
 'Developmental plasticity is the ability of an organism to change its phenotype in response to environmental cues. This phenomenon is important for adapting to changing environments and for the evolution of novel traits. The nematode Pristionchus pacificus is a model organism for studying developmental plasticity. It has two alternative mouth forms, eurystomatous (Eu) and stenostomatous (St), which differ in their ability to feed on other nematodes or microorganisms. The wild-type strain of P . pacificus forms the Eu morph in standard culture conditions but becomes predominantly St in liquid culture. We have identified the nuclear hormone receptor NHR-1 as a second transcription factor controlling mouth-form development. NHR-1 mutants develop a morphology that combines features of the two morphs, consistent with disrupted mouth-form determination. Transcriptomic profiling revealed that NHR-1 and NHR-40 share transcriptional targets, which are expressed in a single pharyngeal gland cell. This cell has undergone extreme morphological remodeling in nematode evolution, which is associated with the emergence of teeth and predatory feeding. Interestingly, NHR-1 and NHR-40 are well conserved, whereas all target genes are rapidly evolving and have no orthologs in Caenorhabditis elegans. This study enhances our understanding of the genetic basis of developmental plasticity and links morphological innovations with rapid gene evolution.'
 'Mitochondria are vital organelles inside the cell that contribute to intracellular calcium (Ca2+) dynamics directly and indirectly via calcium exchange, ATP generation, and production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In this study, we used a newly developed spatiotemporal ventricular myocyte computer model that integrates mitochondrial Ca2+ cycling and complex signaling pathways to investigate the mechanisms of Ca2+ alternans during mitochondrial depolarization. We found that elevation of ROS in response to mitochondrial depolarization plays a critical role in promoting Ca2+ alternans. Further examination revealed that the redox effect of ROS on ryanodine receptors and sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase synergistically promote alternans. Upregulation of mitochondrial Ca2+ uniporter promotes Ca2+ alternans via Ca2+-dependent mitochondrial permeability transition pore opening. Due to their relatively slow kinetics, oxidized Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II activation and ATP do not play significant roles acutely in the genesis of Ca2+ alternans after mitochondrial depolarization, but their roles can be significant in the long term, mainly through their effects on sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase activity. In conclusion, mitochondrial depolarization promotes Ca2+ alternans acutely via the redox effect of ROS and chronically by ATP reduction. It suppresses Ca2+ alternans chronically through oxidized Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II activation.'
 Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome ( HFRS ) is a zoonosis caused by Hantaviruses and characterized by high fever, hemorrhage, and renal damage. China has the largest number of HFRS cases worldwide. In this study, we used surveyed HFRS data and satellite imagery to conduct geostatistical analysis for investigating the associations of rapid urbanization, water bodies, and other factors on the spatiotemporal dynamics of HFRS from year 2005 to 2018 in Xi’an City, Northwest China. We found that rapid urbanization was associated with the HFRS incidence in two different time phases. HFRS caused by urbanization influences farmers to a lesser extent than it does to non-farmers. The association of water bodies with the HFRS incidence rate was higher within the radii of 696.15 m and 1575.39 m, which represented significant thresholds. Geomatics approaches can be used for spatiotemporally investigating the HFRS dynamic characteristics and supporting effective allocations of resources to formulate strategies for preventing epidemics.
 'Helicobacter pylori is a bacterium that chronically infects the stomach of about half of the world's population. The study of this bacterium has been important for understanding the development of gastric cancer, which is associated with H. pylori infection. The study of H. pylori has also been important for understanding the evolution of bacterial populations and the mechanisms of bacterial adaptation to different environments. In this study, the authors used whole-genome sequencing to analyze the genetic diversity of H. pylori isolates from a single individual collected at two time points and from multiple gastric sites. They found that the bacterial population diversified over time, with new mutations and recombination events occurring at a rate of about 1.3 x 10-4 substitutions/site/year and 5.5 x 10-5 substitutions/initiation site/year, respectively. They also found that the bacterial population diversified in response to changes in the host environment, such as the development of gastric atrophy and the loss of acid secretion. The study provides important insights into the evolution of bacterial populations and the mechanisms of bacterial adaptation to different environments.'
 'Soil-transmitted helminths ( STH ) cause significant morbidity in children and women of reproductive age . The World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommends preventive chemotherapy ( PC ) of at-risk populations with anthelminthics to control these infections . Historically , STH are very intensively transmitted in Pemba Island ( Zanzibar ) . A survey conducted in 2011 estimated a prevalence of STH of 89%; after this survey, PC was regularly administered until 2018 . We conducted a survey in 2021 using the same method as that used in 2011 . The prevalence of STH was evaluated at 80% ( 95% CI 78 . 1–81 . 5 ) and most of the STH cases were due to Trichuris trichiura . More than 32% ( 95% CI 30 . 3–34 . 0 ) of the children investigated had infections of moderate or heavy intensity . PC has been conducted for over 25 years in Pemba Island . However , despite its beneficial impact , both the prevalence and the intensity of STH infections remain high , and the intervention has been insufficient in controlling STH morbidity . This is probably due to a combination of irregular PC , climatic conditions favourable to STH transmission , the low sensitivity of T . trichiura to benzimidazoles , high population density and poor sanitation . Improvement of sanitation coverage remains a key measure to permanently reduce the prevalence and intensity of STH .'
 'Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) is a mosquito-borne virus that has caused millions of infections worldwide. CHIKV enters cells primarily via clathrin-mediated endocytosis, where it is transported to early endosomes for membrane fusion. In this study, the authors examined the importance of the microtubule network during the early steps of infection and dissected the intracellular trafficking behavior of CHIKV particles during cell entry. They observed two distinct CHIKV intracellular trafficking patterns prior to membrane hemifusion: half of the CHIKV virions remained static during cell entry and fused in the cell periphery, while the other half showed fast-directed microtubule-dependent movement prior to delivery to Rab5-positive early endosomes and predominantly fused in the perinuclear region of the cell. Disruption of the microtubule network reduced the number of infected cells. At these conditions, membrane hemifusion activity was not affected yet fusion was restricted to the cell periphery. Furthermore, follow-up experiments revealed that disruption of the microtubule network impaired the delivery of the viral genome to the cell cytosol. The authors therefore hypothesize that microtubules may direct the particle to a cellular location that is beneficial for establishing infection or aids in nucleocapsid uncoating.'
 'In order to adjust to changing environmental conditions, bacteria use nucleotide second messengers to transduce external signals and translate them into a specific cellular response. Cyclic di-adenosine monophosphate ( c-di-AMP ) is the only known essential nucleotide second messenger. In addition to the well-established role of this second messenger in the control of potassium homeostasis, we observed that glutamate is as toxic as potassium for a c-di-AMP-free strain of the Gram-positive model bacterium Bacillus subtilis. In this work, we isolated suppressor mutants that allow growth of a c-di-AMP-free strain under these toxic conditions. Characterization of glutamate resistant suppressors revealed that they contain pairs of mutations, in most cases affecting glutamate and potassium homeostasis. Among these mutations, several independent mutations affected a novel glutamate transporter, AimA (Amino acid importer A, formerly YbeC). This protein is the major transporter for glutamate and serine in B. subtilis. Unexpectedly, some of the isolated suppressor mutants could suppress glutamate toxicity by a combination of mutations that affect phospholipid biosynthesis and a specific gain-of-function mutation of a mechanosensitive channel of small conductance (YfkC) resulting in the acquisition of a device for glutamate export. Cultivation of the c-di-AMP-free strain on complex medium was an even greater challenge because the amounts of potassium, glutamate, and other osmolytes are substantially higher than in minimal medium. Suppressor mutants viable on complex medium could only be isolated under anaerobic conditions if one of the two c-di-AMP receptor proteins, DarA or DarB, was absent. Also on complex medium, potassium and osmolyte toxicity are the major bottlenecks for the growth of B. subtilis in the absence of c-di-AMP. Our results indicate that the essentiality of c-di-AMP in B. subtilis is caused by the global impact of the second messenger nucleotide on different aspects of cellular physiology. '
1. Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) causes lymphomas and epithelial cell cancers . 2. EBV, through activation of cellular STAT3, prevents phosphorylation of Chk1, and thereby, suppresses activation of the intra-S phase cell-cycle checkpoint. 3. The defect in Chk1 phosphorylation also curtails RAD51 nucleation, and thereby, homologous recombination repair of DNA double strand breaks. 4. The resulting reliance on error-prone microhomology-mediated end-joining ( MMEJ ) repair makes EBV-transformed cells susceptible to PARP inhibition and simultaneously accrual of genome-wide deletions and insertions resulting from synthesis-dependent MMEJ. 5. Analysis of transcriptomic and drug susceptibility data from hundreds of cancer lines reveals a STAT3-dependent gene-set predictive of susceptibility of cancers to synthetic lethal PARP inhibition. 6. These findings demonstrate how the tumor virus EBV re-shapes cellular DNA repair, provide the first genome-wide evidence for insertions resulting from MMEJ in human cells, and expand the range of cancers ( EBV-related and -unrelated ) that are likely to respond to synthetic lethal inhibitors given the high prevalence of cancers with constitutively active STAT3.
 'Buruli ulcer is a chronic debilitating disease caused by an environmental Mycobacterium ulcerans . The disease is prevalent in tropical, subtropical and temperate climates, with the majority of cases occurring in West and Central Africa . The mode of transmission is unclear, hindering the implementation of adequate prevention for the population. Currently, early diagnosis and treatment are crucial to minimizing morbidity, costs, and preventing long-term disability. Biological confirmation of clinical diagnosis of Buruli ulcer is essential before starting chemotherapy. The gold standard biological confirmation is the quantitative PCR targeting the insertion sequence IS2404 of M . ulcerans performed on cutaneous samples. However, the low PCR confirmation rate in endemic African countries has been identified as a major challenge. To address this challenge, 11 laboratories decided to combine their efforts to create the network “BU-LABNET” in 2019. The first step of the network was to harmonize the procedures and ship specific reagents to each laboratory. With this system in place, implementation of these procedures for testing and follow-up was easy, and the laboratories were able to carry out their first quality control with a very high success rate. It is now time to integrate other neglected tropical diseases into this platform, such as yaws or leprosy. The creation of this network has led to improved quality of BU diagnosis in African countries, which is essential for accurate epidemiology and implementation of management strategies for this neglected tropical disease.'
 'The Cluster-of-Differentiation-44 protein ( CD44 ) is a versatile molecule that plays a role in various cellular processes such as inflammation, hematopoiesis, cell migration, and cancer invasiveness. CD44 is a transmembrane protein that can be modified by palmitoylation and the presence of phosphatidylinositol-4 , 5-biphosphate ( PIP2 ) lipids. In this study, we performed extensive molecular dynamics simulations to study the raft affinity and translocation of CD44 in phase separated model membranes as well as more realistic plasma membrane environments. We observed a delicate balance between the influence of the palmitoylations and the presence of PIP2 lipids. The palmitoylations of CD44 increase the affinity for raft domains, while the presence of PIP2 lipids has the opposite effect. Additionally, we studied the association between CD44 and the membrane adaptor FERM in dependence of these factors. We found that the presence of PIP2 lipids allows CD44 and FERM to associate in an experimentally observed binding mode, whereas the highly palmitoylated species shows no binding affinity. Together, our results shed light on the sophisticated mechanism on how membrane translocation and peripheral protein association can be controlled by both protein modifications and membrane composition.'
 'Fire ants ( Solenopsis invicta ) are social insects that form rafts on water to escape floods. These rafts are made of a monolayer of interconnected worker ants that float on the water. The rafts have a planar shape and can grow outwards by treadmilling, a process in which ants on the edge of the raft detach and move to the center, pushing the raft outwards. In this study, the authors developed a numerical model to simulate the behavior of fire ants in rafts. The model consists of two layers of agents: a structural layer of interconnected worker ants that form the raft, and a freely active layer of worker ants that walk on top of the raft. The model captures the behavior of the ants in both layers, including their movement, interactions, and treadmilling. The authors found that the model can reproduce the treadmilling dynamics observed experimentally. They also found that the model can spontaneously generate protrusions on the rafts, which grow outwards due to the treadmilling dynamics. The authors found that the growth of the protrusions is influenced by the activity level of the freely active ants on the raft. They also found that the model can undergo phase transitions between periods of outwards growth and recessive periods in which the rafts assume more rounded or elliptical shapes. The authors conclude that their model provides a framework for understanding the emergent behavior of fire ant rafts and the role of local interactions in the formation of protrusions.'
 'This study aimed to investigate the differences in olfactory gene expression between two subspecies of mosquitoes, Culex pipiens quinquefasciatus Say (Cx . quinquefasciatus) and Culex pipiens form molestus Forskal (Cx . molestus), which have different blood-feeding behaviors. The study used transcriptome sequencing to identify differentially expressed olfactory genes in the antennae of the two subspecies, and then validated the results using quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis. Finally, the study injected dsRNA of the selected differentially expressed olfactory genes into female adult mosquitoes to investigate their role in blood-feeding behavior. The results suggest that OR5 and OR78 play a role in the blood-feeding behavior of Cx . quinquefasciatus, and that OR65 plays a role in the blood-feeding behavior of Cx . molestus. These findings provide new targets for screening effective repellent compounds to control mosquito-borne diseases effectively and efficiently.'
 'The hippocampus is a brain structure that plays a crucial role in memory formation and consolidation. During exploration of novel environments, place cells in the hippocampus fire action potentials in response to specific locations. These place cells are thought to be formed through a combination of dendritic inhibition and synaptic plasticity. Our study proposes a computational model of the hippocampal CA1 network that describes the formation, dynamics, and stabilization of place fields. We show that somatic disinhibition is sufficient to form place fields, but dendritic inhibition and synaptic plasticity are necessary for place field stabilization. Our model suggests that place cell stability is due to large excitatory synaptic weights and large dendritic inhibition. We also predict that artificially induced dendritic events can shift place fields even after place field stabilization. Our model provides a circuit-level understanding of place field formation and stabilization and makes predictions that can be tested in future experiments.'
 'Molecular xenomonitoring ( MX ) is a method used to detect parasite DNA in the vector population to monitor onchocerciasis transmission. However, the sensitivity of MX for detecting onchocerciasis-positive communities has not been previously evaluated. We conducted a systematic review of studies reporting the prevalence of Onchocerca volvulus DNA in wild-caught Simulium spp. flies (MX rate) and corresponding prevalence of microfilaria (mf) in humans. We found that MX is sensitive to communities with ongoing onchocerciasis transmission. We also found a significant relationship between mf prevalence and MX rate, with mf prevalence accounting for half of the variation in MX rate. These findings suggest that MX has potential to predict human mf prevalence, but further data is required to understand this relationship, particularly from MX surveys conducted earlier in control programmes before transmission has been interrupted. Overall, our review provides important information for the design and implementation of MX surveys in onchocerciasis control programmes.'
 'Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease caused by the obligate intracellular bacteria Mycobacterium leprae. The lectin pathway of complement (LP) has long been recognized as favoring the establishment of infection and development of disease. The MASP1 gene encodes the serine proteases MASP-1 and MASP-3 and the non-enzymatic protein MAp44. MASP-1 autoactivates and transactivates MASP-2, leading to the cleavage of complement factors C2 and C4, in order to form the C3 convertase (C4bC2b). C4bC2b cleaves C3 and generates the anaphylatoxin C3a and the opsonin C3b. C3b is deposited on the target and recognized by complement receptors, which internalize the opsonized elements into phagocytes. MASP-1 also has procoagulant activity, cleaving and activating Factor XIII and fibrinopeptide, generating fibrinopeptide B and attracting neutrophils to assist the coagulation cascade. MASP-1 generates bradykinin from the cleavage of high-molecular-weight kininogen. It also cleaves PAR4 on endothelial cells and induces MAPKp38 and NFkB proinflammatory signaling. MASP-3 cleaves pro-Factor D, enabling factor D to create the alternative pathway C3 convertase. Rare mutations in a highly conserved region of exon 12 of the MASP1 gene, which is exclusive of MASP-3 and encodes the serine protease domain of this protein, cause the 3MC1 (Malpuech-Michels-Mingarelli-Carnevale) syndrome, pointing to an important role in ectodermal development. Low MASP-2 levels, as well as MASP2 polymorphisms associated with low MASP-2 production, were associated with increased susceptibility to leprosy. Low MBL levels and corresponding MBL2 polymorphisms, in contrast, were associated with increased resistance. Higher FCN-3 levels were more frequent in leprosy patients than in controls. Polymorphisms of the CR1 gene associated with leprosy, as well as a negative correlation between the anti-inflammatory soluble CR1 and pro-inflammatory MBL levels, probably preventing inflammation were found. The possible roles of MASPs in the establishment of infections and in leprosy progression are still poorly understood. The present study aimed to provide a better understanding of the immunological clinical spectrum of leprosy and of the role played by the lectin pathway in mycobacterial infections. The study found lower MASP-3 and MAp44 levels in patients compared with controls, and in lepromatous compared with non-lepromatous patients. Controls with rs1109452_rs850314*CA or CG had higher MASP-1 and lower MASP-3 levels. Those with GC_CCG had increasing susceptibility and higher MAp44 levels. MASP-3 expression decreased in patients compared with controls carrying rs1109452_rs850314*CA or CG, which may rely on exon 12 CpG methylation and/or miR-2861/miR-3181 mRNA binding. Polymorphisms regulating MASP1/MASP3/MAp44 availability in serum modulate leprosy susceptibility, underlining the importance of lectin pathway regulation against pathogens that exploit phagocytosis to parasitize host macrophages.'
 'Nongenetic phenotypic variation can either speed up or slow down adaptive evolution . We show that it can speed up evolution in environments where available carbon and energy sources change over time . To this end , we use an experimentally validated model of Escherichia coli growth on two alternative carbon sources, glucose and acetate . On the superior carbon source ( glucose ) , all cells achieve high growth rates, while on the inferior carbon source ( acetate ) only a small fraction of the population manages to initiate growth. Consequently, populations experience a bottleneck when the environment changes from the superior to the inferior carbon source. Growth on the inferior carbon source depends on a circuit under the control of a transcription factor that is repressed in the presence of the superior carbon source. We show that noise in the expression of this transcription factor can increase the probability that cells start growing on the inferior carbon source. In doing so, it can decrease the severity of the bottleneck and increase mean population fitness whenever this fitness is low. A modest amount of noise can also enhance the fitness effects of a beneficial allele that increases the fraction of a population initiating growth on acetate. Additionally, noise can protect this allele from extinction, accelerate its spread, and increase its likelihood of going to fixation. Central to the adaptation-enhancing principle we identify is the ability of noise to mitigate population bottlenecks, particularly in environments that fluctuate periodically. Because such bottlenecks are frequent in fluctuating environments, and because periodically fluctuating environments themselves are common, this principle may apply to a broad range of environments and organisms.'
 'Arthropod-borne viruses are a major cause of human disease worldwide. Dengue virus (DENV) is a single-stranded positive sense RNA virus that infects mosquitoes and humans. In this study, a novel RNA-protein interaction detection assay was used to identify proteins that directly or indirectly bind to DENV RNA in infected mosquito cells. Two mosquito proteins, Sec61A1 and Loquacious (Loqs), were found to be in complex with the viral RNA. Depletion analysis demonstrated that both Sec61A1 and Loqs have pro-viral functions in the dengue viral infectious cycle. Co-localization and pull-down assays showed that Loqs interacts with viral protein NS3 and both full-length and subgenomic viral RNAs. While Loqs coats the entire positive-stranded viral RNA, it binds selectively to the 3’ end of the negative-strand of the viral genome. In-depth analyses showed that the absence of Loqs did not affect translation or turnover of the viral RNA but modulated viral replication. Loqs also displayed pro-viral functions for several flaviviruses in infected mosquito cells, suggesting a conserved role for Loqs in flavivirus-infected mosquito cells. These findings provide new insights into the interactions between DENV and mosquito host proteins, and highlight the importance of studying viral-host interactions in the mosquito host to understand the biology of arthropod-borne viruses.'
 'Temporal environmental variations can affect the diversity of communities of competing populations. In particular, the covariance between competition and environment can facilitate invasions of rare species via the storage effect. In this study, we compared four scenarios: environmental variations may be either periodic (seasonal) or stochastic, and the dynamics may support the storage effect (global competition) or not (local competition). In two-species communities, we showed that stochastic variations yield shorter persistence time because they allow for rare sequences of bad years. In diverse communities, we found that the same trends hold: storage effect and periodic variations increase both species richness and the evenness of the community. Surprisingly, when the number of temporal niches is small, global competition acts to decrease species richness and evenness, as it focuses the competition to specific periods, thus increasing the effective fitness differences. Our study provides insights into the role of environmental variations in promoting taxonomic and genetic diversity.'
 'Functional non-coding RNAs ( fncRNAs ) are important molecules that regulate gene expression and metabolism. However, there is a lack of understanding of the functional determinants of these molecules. In this study, we used the phylogenetic Evolutionary Trace ( ET ) paradigm to identify functional determinants in RNA sequences. We assigned a relative rank of importance to every base in a study of 1070 functional RNAs, including the ribosome, and observed evolutionary patterns similar to those seen in proteins. We found that the top-ranked bases clustered in secondary and tertiary structures, and these clusters mapped functional regions for catalysis, binding proteins and drugs, post-transcriptional modification, and deleterious mutations. We also found that the quantitative quality of these clusters correlated with the identification of functional regions. As a result, smoother structural distributions of evolutionary important nucleotides improved functional site predictions. We applied these findings to identify several previously undocumented and potentially functional ET nucleotide clusters in the ribosome. Our work is broadly relevant to studies of structure-function in ribonucleic acids and shows that evolutionary constraints among sequence, structure, and function are similar in structured RNA and proteins. RNA ET is currently available as part of the ET command-line package and will be available as a web-server.'
 'This paper presents a new method for identifying the source of an epidemic using a Bayesian approach. The authors use a multivariate Gaussian mixture model to identify the relevant component in the model, and then use human mobility networks to calibrate the parameters of the model. The authors demonstrate their method using the 2000-2002 cholera outbreak in the KwaZulu-Natal province of South Africa. The authors' method is able to identify the source of the outbreak with a high degree of accuracy, and is able to incorporate prior knowledge into the model. The authors' method is able to provide estimates in the form of either individual locations or regions, and is able to estimate the uncertainty in the results. The authors' method is able to provide estimates using only first-arrival times of the epidemic at a small proportion of nodes, and is able to integrate cholera-specific transmission models into the network-based source detection. The authors' method is able to integrate the role of human mobility in the complex spreading of waterborne diseases, and is able to develop an informed prior probability distribution. The authors' method is implemented in the NetOrigin package in R.'
 'Recent advances in multiplex imaging techniques have allowed for the staining of dozens of markers within a single tissue sample, but this comes with technical challenges such as tissue loss and long acquisition times. To address this, we propose computational approaches to determine the amount of shared information between markers and select an optimally reduced panel that captures maximum amount of information with the fewest markers. We examined several panel selection approaches and evaluated them based on their ability to reconstruct the full panel images and information within breast cancer tissue microarray datasets using cyclic immunofluorescence as a proof of concept. We show that all methods performed adequately and could re-capture cell types using only 18 of 25 markers ( 72% of the original panel size ). The correlation-based selection methods achieved the best single-cell marker mean intensity predictions with a Spearman correlation of 0 . 90 with the reduced panel. Using the proposed methods shown here, it is possible for researchers to design more efficient multiplex imaging panels that maximize the amount of information retained with respect to certain evaluation metrics and architecture biases .'
 'Leptospirosis is a bacterial infection that can cause severe kidney damage. In this study, researchers used a hamster model to investigate the relationship between leptospirosis and chronic kidney disease. They found that the severity of kidney damage in the acute phase of the infection was associated with the degree of kidney damage in the chronic phase. The researchers suggest that the distribution of bacteria in the kidney during the acute phase may influence the degree of kidney damage in the chronic phase. This study provides important insights into the pathogenesis of leptospirosis and may help guide the development of new treatments for this disease.'
 'Talaromycosis is a serious regional disease endemic in Southeast Asia, especially in Guangxi, China. In-hospital mortality of HIV/AIDS patients with T . marneffei infection is high. We developed a predictive model using machine learning techniques to identify relevant prognostic factors and predict death. The XGBoost model exhibited 0 . 71 sensitivity, 0 . 99 specificity, and 0 . 97 AUC in the training dataset, and our outcome prediction model provided robust discrimination in the testing dataset, showing an AUC of 0 . 90 with 0 . 69 sensitivity and 0 . 96 specificity. The most important predictive features were septic shock and respiratory failure, followed by uric acid, urea, platelets, and the AST/ALT ratios. The XGBoost machine learning model is a good predictor in the hospitalization outcome of HIV/AIDS patients with T . marneffei infection. The model may have potential application in mortality prediction and high-risk factor identification in the talaromycosis population.'
 'Toxocariasis is a parasitic infection caused by the roundworm Toxocara canis or Toxocara cati. It is a neglected disease of poverty that disproportionately affects socioeconomically disadvantaged groups in the United States. The study presented here found that Toxocara eggs are widespread in New York City public spaces, with the highest contamination rate in the Bronx. The study also found that Toxocara cati, the cat roundworm, was the predominant species. These findings suggest that feral or untreated cats in New York City represent a significant source of environmental contamination. The study highlights the need for reducing environmental Toxocara contamination and additional rigorous public health interventions to interrupt transmission to humans.'
 'Scorpion envenoming is a public health problem in Tropical America, and Tityus trivittatus is one of the most medically significant species. In this study, we investigated the lethality, composition, antigenicity, and enzymatic activity of venom from a T . trivittatus population found in urban areas of eastern Paraguay. Our results indicate that this population produces a potently toxic venom with an LD50 around 1 . 19 mg/kg. Venom neutralization in preliminary mouse bioassays was complete when using Brazilian anti-T . serrulatus antivenom but only partial when using Argentinean anti-T . trivittatus antivenom. Venom competitive solid-phase enzyme immunoassays and immunoblotting from Argentinean and Paraguayan T . trivittatus populations indicated that antigenic differences exist across the species range. SDS-PAGE showed variations in type and relative amounts of venom proteins between T . trivitattus samples from Argentina and Paraguay. MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry indicated that while some sodium channel toxins are shared, others are population-specific. Proteolytic activity by zymography and peptide identification through nESI-MS/MS also point out that population-specific proteases may exist in T . trivitattus, which are postulated to be involved in the envenoming process. A time-calibrated molecular phylogeny of mitochondrial COI sequences revealed a significant ( 8 . 14% ) genetic differentiation between the Argentinean and Paraguayan populations, which appeared to have diverged between the mid Miocene and early Pliocene. Altogether, toxinological and genetic evidence indicate that T . trivitattus populations from Paraguay and Argentina correspond to distinct, unique cryptic species, and suggest that further venom and taxonomic diversity exists in synanthropic southern South American Tityus than previously thought.'
 'Bats are known to use echolocation to navigate and find food. However, it is not clear whether they can also use echolocation to identify plants and flowers. To investigate this, we recorded echoes of 168 flowers from 12 different plant species, including six that are pollinated by bats and six that are pollinated by insects or hummingbirds. We found that bat-pollinated flowers have a higher echo target strength, which is independent of their size, and differ in their morphology, specifically in the lower variance of their morphological features. We also found that a good classification accuracy can be achieved with only one echo/spectrogram to classify the 12 different plant species, with bat-pollinated flowers being easier to classify. These findings suggest that bats may use echolocation to identify and classify plants and flowers, which could be beneficial for their foraging and feeding habits.'
 'Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease caused by parasitic worms of the genus Schistosoma and is prevalent in many parts of the world. In China, the only intermediate snail host is Oncomelania hupensis, which is amphibious rather than aquatic and associated with high moisture microhabitats. In contrast to other schistosome species adapted to humans, S. japonicum not only infects humans but also a wide variety of mammals, particularly domestic animals that act as reservoirs such as the water buffalo. Surveys conducted in the mid-1950s showed that the snail habitat areas were about 14.3 billion km2, which declined to 3.6 billion km2 in 2015. However, the O. hupensis habitats have not disappeared and some areas even show an upward trend. Previous studies have shown when ecological conditions become more favorable, potential snail habitats expand resulting in a general increase in snail numbers, and also an increase in numbers of infected snails. To improve identification, we therefore attempted a modelling strategy with machine-learning as the approach to achieve superior accuracy on the basis of our original research. We found the presence-absence models performing better than those based on presence-only. However, those derived from machine-learning, especially the random forest (RF) approach were preferable with all indices above 0.90. Distance to nearest river was found to be the most important variable for the lake/marshlands, while the climatic variables were more important for the hilly endemic areas. The predicted high-risk areas for potential snail habitats of the lake/marshland type exist mainly along the Yangtze River, while those of the hilly type are dispersed in the areas south of the Yangtze River. We provide here the first comprehensive risk profile of potential snail habitats based on precise examinations revealing the true distribution and habitat type, thereby improving efficiency and accuracy of snail control including better allocation of limited health resources.'
 'Giardia duodenalis causes giardiasis, a major diarrheal disease in humans worldwide. The treatment of giardiasis relies mainly on metronidazole (MTZ) and albendazole (ABZ). The emergence of ABZ resistance in this parasite has prompted studies to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying this phenomenon. G . duodenalis trophozoites convert ABZ into its sulfoxide (ABZSO) and sulfone (ABZSOO) forms, despite lacking canonical enzymes involved in these processes, such as cytochrome P450s (CYP450s) and flavin-containing monooxygenases (FMOs). This study aims to identify the enzyme responsible for ABZ metabolism and its role in ABZ resistance in G . duodenalis. We first determined that the iron-containing cofactor heme induces higher mRNA expression levels of flavohemoglobin (gFlHb) in Giardia trophozoites. Molecular docking analyses predict favorable interactions of gFlHb with ABZ, ABZSO and ABZSOO. Spectral analyses of recombinant gFlHb in the presence of ABZ, ABZSO and ABZSOO showed high affinities for each of these compounds with Kd values of 22.7, 19.1 and 23.8 nM respectively. ABZ is indirectly oxidized to ABZSO by superoxide generated from the NADH oxidase activity of gFlHb. In a similar manner, the superoxide-generating enzyme xanthine oxidase was able to produce ABZSO in the presence of xanthine and ABZ. Interestingly, we find that gFlHb mRNA expression is lower in albendazole-resistant clones compared to those that are sensitive to this drug. Furthermore, all albendazole-resistant clones transfected to overexpress gFlHb displayed higher susceptibility to the drug than the parent clones. Collectively these findings indicate a role for gFlHb in ABZ conversion to its sulfoxide and that gFlHb down-regulation acts as a passive pharmacokinetic mechanism of resistance in this parasite.'
 'The study of yeast metabolism has led to the discovery of a new enzyme that allows cells to grow in the absence of organosulfur compounds. The enzyme, named Hydrogen Sulfide Utilizing-1 (Hsu1p), is responsible for the direct assimilation of sulfur from hydrogen sulfide, thereby resolving methionine auxotrophy. The discovery of this enzyme has important implications for our understanding of yeast metabolism and the ability of yeast to adapt to changing environmental conditions.'
 'Juvenile hormone (JH) is a gonadotrophic hormone that stimulates insect vitellogenesis and oogenesis. Paracellular transport of yolk proteins through intercellular channels (patency) in the follicular epithelium is a developmentally regulated and evolutionarily conserved process during vitellogenesis. In the migratory locust Locusta migratoria, JH-regulated remodeling of zonula adherens (ZA), the belt-like adherens junction maintaining physical linking between follicle cells, was found to be responsible for patency opening. JH triggered phosphorylation of Partitioning defective protein 3 (Par3) via a signaling cascade including G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), small GTPase Cell division cycle 42 (Cdc42), and atypical Protein kinase C (aPKC). Par3 phosphorylation resulted in its disassociation from β-Catenin, the cytoplasmic partner of ZA core component E-Cadherin. Release of Par3 from the β-Catenin/E-Cadherin complex caused ZA disassembly at tricellular contacts, consequently leading to patency enlargement. This study provides new insight into how JH stimulates insect vitellogenesis and egg production via inducing the opening of paracellular route for vitellogenin transport crossing the follicular epithelium barrier.'
 'Alcohol-related liver disease ( ALD ) is a major public health concern worldwide . Sustained alcohol consumption causes fatty liver and alcohol-related steatohepatitis, which may progress to alcoholic liver fibrosis and eventually to alcohol-related liver cirrhosis . Unfortunately, most ALD patients are diagnosed in the late stage when complications to cirrhosis have already developed . In this study, we used data from the Danish National Patient Registry to identify relevant upstream and downstream diagnoses that help understand the development of ALD and its progression to liver failure. We found that ALC is the most common form of ALD in the registry data and that ALC patients have a strong over-representation of diagnoses associated with liver dysfunction. By contrast, we identified a small number of ALF patients who appear to be much less sick than those with ALC. We performed a matched case–control study using the group of patients with ALC as cases and their matched patients with non-ALD as controls. Machine learning models trained and tested on the set of ALC patients achieved a high performance for data classification. When testing the same trained models on the small set of ALF patients, their performance dropped a lot. The statistical and machine learning results underscore small groups of upstream and downstream comorbidities that accurately detect ALC patients and show promise in prediction of ALF. Our findings highlight the potential of this approach to uncover knowledge in registry data related to ALD.'
 'During development, neurons often undergo dendrite pruning and regeneration to form mature dendritic arbors. The mechanisms underlying these processes are not well understood. In Drosophila, class IV dendrite arborization (C4da) neurons undergo both developmental and injury-induced dendrite regeneration. Here, we show that the microRNA miR-87 is a critical regulator of dendrite regeneration in C4da neurons. Loss of miR-87 function impaired dendrite regeneration after developmentally-programmed pruning, while overexpression of miR-87 led to precocious initiation of dendrite regeneration. We found that miR-87 targets the transcriptional repressor Tramtrack69 (Ttk69) and that reducing Ttk69 expression restored dendrite regeneration in miR-87 knockout neurons. Finally, we found that miR-87 is required for dendrite regeneration after acute injury in the larval stage. These findings suggest that miR-87 promotes dendrite regrowth during regeneration at least in part through suppressing Ttk69 in Drosophila sensory neurons and that developmental and injury-induced dendrite regeneration share a common intrinsic mechanism to reactivate dendrite growth.'
γδ T cells are a type of unconventional T cell that play an important role in the immune response to malaria. These cells are able to recognize malaria-derived phosphoantigens through a unique mode of presentation by the transmembrane presenting molecules Butyrophylin 3A1 (BTN3A1) and Butyrophilin 2A1. Vδ2 T cells are able to inhibit replication of blood-stage parasites in vitro by the release of cytotoxic granules containing granulysin. However, chronic exposure to malaria is associated with a decline in both the frequency of Vδ2 T cells and their ability to produce pro-inflammatory cytokines in response to P . falciparum antigen. In this study, the authors investigated the functional role of CD16 on Vδ2 T cells in the immune response to malaria. They found that CD16+ Vδ2 T cells possess more cytolytic potential than their CD16- counterparts and bear many of the hallmarks of mature NK cells. Furthermore, they demonstrated that Vδ2 T cells from heavily malaria-exposed individuals are able to respond to opsonized P . falciparum-infected red blood cells through CD16, representing a second, distinct pathway by which Vδ2 T cells may contribute to anti-parasite effector functions. This response was independent of TCR engagement, as demonstrated by blockade of the phosphoantigen presenting molecule Butyrophilin 3A1. Together these results indicate that Vδ2 T cells in heavily malaria-exposed individuals retain the capacity for antimalarial effector function, and demonstrate their activation by opsonizing antibodies. This represents a new role both for Vδ2 T cells and for opsonizing antibodies in parasite clearance, emphasizing cooperation between the cellular and humoral arms of the immune system.
 'DEER-PREdict is a software program that predicts Double Electron-Electron Resonance distance distributions and Paramagnetic Relaxation Enhancement rates from ensembles of protein conformations. The software uses an established rotamer library approach to describe the paramagnetic probes bound covalently to the protein. DEER-PREdict has been designed to operate efficiently on large conformational ensembles, such as those generated by molecular dynamics simulation, to facilitate the validation or refinement of molecular models as well as the interpretation of experimental data. The performance and accuracy of the software are demonstrated with experimentally characterized protein systems: HIV-1 protease, T4 Lysozyme, and Acyl-CoA-binding protein. DEER-PREdict is open source (GPLv3) and available at github.com/KULL-Centre/DEERpredict and as a Python PyPI package pypi.org/project/DEERPREdict.'
 'Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli ( ETEC ) is a major cause of diarrhea in children under the age of 5 in low-middle income countries ( LMICs ) . The lack of point of care diagnostic tools for routine ETEC diagnosis results in limited data regarding the actual burden and epidemiology in the endemic areas . We evaluated the performance of a novel Rapid LAMP based Diagnostic Test ( RLDT ) for detection of ETEC in stool as a point of care diagnostic assay in a resource-limited setting . We conducted a cross-sectional study of 324 randomly selected stool samples from children under 5 presenting with moderate to severe diarrhea ( MSD ) . The samples were collected between November 2012 to September 2013 at selected health facilities in Zambia . The RLDT was evaluated by targeting three ETEC toxin genes [heat labile toxin ( LT ) and heat stable toxins ( STh and STp ) ] . Quantitative PCR was used as the “gold standard” to evaluate the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of RLDT for detection of ETEC . We additionally described the prevalence and seasonality of ETEC . The study included 324 participants , 50 . 6% of which were female . The overall prevalence of ETEC was 19 . 8% by qPCR and 19 . 4% by RLDT . The children between 12 to 59 months had the highest prevalence of 22% . The study determined ETEC toxin distribution was LT 28/321 ( 9% ) , ST 18/321 ( 6% ) and LT/ST 16/321 ( 5% ) . The sensitivity and specificity of the RLDT compared to qPCR using a Ct 35 as the cut-off , were 90 . 7% and 97 . 5% for LT , 85 . 2% and 99 . 3% for STh and 100% and 99 . 7% for STp , respectively . The results of this study suggest that RLDT is sufficiently sensitive and specific and easy to implement in the endemic countries . Being rapid and simple , the RLDT also presents as an attractive tool for point-of-care testing at the health facilities and laboratories in the resource-limited settings .'
 'Longitudinal intervention studies with repeated measurements over time are an important type of experimental design in biomedical research . These studies generate increasingly multivariate outcome data due to the advent of “omics”-sciences ( genomics , transcriptomics , proteomics , metabolomics ) . Analysis of such data must take both the longitudinal intervention structure and multivariate nature of the data into account . The ASCA+-framework combines general linear models with principal component analysis and can be used to separate and visualize the multivariate effect of different experimental factors . However , this methodology has not yet been developed for the more complex designs often found in longitudinal intervention studies , which may be unbalanced , involve randomized interventions , and have substantial missing data . Here we describe a new methodology , repeated measures ASCA+ ( RM-ASCA+ ) , and show how it can be used to model metabolic changes over time , and compare metabolic changes between groups , in both randomized and non-randomized intervention studies . Tools for both visualization and model validation are discussed . This approach can facilitate easier interpretation of data from longitudinal clinical trials with multivariate outcomes .'
 'This study presents a novel approach to model the time evolution of disease phenotypes using a reaction network as a microscopic model for the progress of disease states. The model is based on a large population of reaction networks and the stochastic dynamics of the system to see how the development of defects affects the macroscopic states of the signs probability distribution. The model can provide the time dependence of the sign probabilities given a disease phenotype, allowing for the estimation of the likelihood of a disease hypothesis given the temporal evolution of the signs. The model is useful in particular for a dynamical (history-based) diagnostic problem, to estimate the likelihood of a disease hypothesis given the temporal evolution of the signs. The model is based on a large population of reaction networks and the stochastic dynamics of the system to see how the development of defects affects the macroscopic states of the signs probability distribution. The model can provide the time dependence of the sign probabilities given a disease phenotype, allowing for the estimation of the likelihood of a disease hypothesis given the temporal evolution of the signs. The model is useful in particular for a dynamical (history-based) diagnostic problem, to estimate the likelihood of a disease hypothesis given the temporal evolution of the signs.'
 'The relationship between the amount of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) present in the environment and the transmission of the virus to a susceptible host is not well understood. Here, we developed a mathematical model to determine the relationship between viral kinetics in the upper respiratory tract, viral kinetics in the aerosols, and new transmissions in golden hamsters challenged with SARS-CoV-2. We found that infectious virus shedding early in infection correlates with transmission events, shedding of infectious virus diminishes late in the infection, and high viral RNA levels late in the infection are a poor indicator of transmission. We also showed that viral infectiousness increases in a density-dependent manner with viral RNA and that their relative ratio is time-dependent. These findings are useful for designing interventions.'
 'Quantifying the overlap between two groups, sets, or communities is a problem in many fields including genetics, ecology, and computer science. When the two communities are fully known, one can simply count the size of their intersection. However, when populations are only partially observed, due to a subsampling or stochastic sampling process, the community overlap problem becomes one of inference. In ecology, the relationship between the diversity in one community and another is called β-diversity. The canonical Jaccard index and the Sorenson-Dice coefficient are two examples of β-diversity indices that have been widely used to quantify the similarity between two communities. However, these indices are biased when community sampling is incomplete. To address this issue, a Bayesian approach to β-diversity estimation was introduced that provides unbiased estimates of the overlap between two stochastically sampled communities, yet this approach assumes that the two original community sizes are known a priori. In practice, however, overall community sizes may be unknown or may vary widely, making this model and others like it misspecified from the outset to an unknown degree. Here, we address this problem by leveraging an additional and often available source of data in presence-absence studies: the total number of independent samples taken from each community. Building on the same intuition as the estimation of total species from a species accumulation curve, we introduce a model for β-diversity calculations which produces joint estimates of the number of shared species, the sizes of each of the two communities being compared, and the Bayesian versions of the canonical Jaccard and Sorenson-Dice coefficients (as well as 20 others which are based on these quantities). Posterior samples of these quantities offer solutions to issues identified above by providing unbiased central estimates, the quantification of uncertainty via credible intervals, and the construction of Bayesian versions of the canonical Jaccard and Sorenson-Dice coefficients. Although estimating pairwise similarity is a problem in many fields, here we present the problem in the context of estimating the genetic similarity between pairs of malaria parasites from the species Plasmodium falciparum—the most virulent of the human malaria parasites. Because terminology varies by context, in the remainder of this manuscript, we use the terms community, set, and repertoire to refer to the same fundamental thing: the total number of unique species, objects, or genes, respectively, in a group of interest. Our goal in all contexts will be to estimate the number of shared species, objects, or genes, and to simultaneously estimate the sizes of each of the two communities, sets, or repertoires being compared.'
 'Chagas disease is a parasitic infection caused by the protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi. It is a major public health problem in Latin America and is becoming increasingly important worldwide due to international migration. The diagnosis of Chagas disease is complex and requires the use of multiple tests. This systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to summarize the evidence available on the diagnostic validity of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and rapid diagnostic tests (RDT) in individuals with suspected chronic Chagas disease. The bivariate random effects model was used to estimate the overall sensitivity and specificity through forest-plots, ROC space, and we visually assessed the heterogeneity between studies. Meta-regressions were made using subgroup analysis. Deeks’ test was used to assess the risk of publication bias. 43 studies were included, 27 assessed ELISA tests, 14 assessed RDTs, and 2 assessed ELISA and RDTs against different reference standards. The ELISA tests had a sensitivity of 99% (95% CI: 98–99) and a specificity of 98% (95% CI: 97–99). The RDT tests had values of 95% (95% CI: 94–97) and 97% (95% CI: 96–98), respectively. Deeks’ test showed asymmetry on the ELISA assays. ELISA and RDT tests have high validity for diagnosing chronic Chagas disease. The analysis of these two types of evidence in this systematic review and meta-analysis constitutes an input for their use. The limitations included the difficulty in extracting data due to the lack of information in the articles and the comparative clinical-type design of some studies.'
 'This study presents a new computational model of dopamine transmission that considers multiple terminal release events and incorporates the geometry of the synaptic cleft. The model was validated by simulating concentration values comparable to physiological values observed in empirical studies. The model shows that synaptic dopamine diffuses into extra-synaptic space, but that this signal is negligibly recognized by neighboring synapses. The model also shows that differences in striatal dopaminergic signaling contribute to differential learning and reward processing, with relevant implications for addictive- and compulsive-like behavior. The model can help to refine our understanding of DA transmission and its role in behavior and cognition.'
 'Ticks are long-lived, reproductively prolific, and can utilize a variety of hosts. During the blood-sucking process, tick salivary glands secrete a variety of biologically-active molecules that reduce host pain and itching, inhibit blood coagulation, disturb the innate and adaptive immune responses, and dilate the blood vessels. Tick salivary glands rapidly degenerate several days post engorgement, which may be caused by the increased concentration of ecdysone in the hemolymph. In this work, we first proved autophagy-related gene (ATG) and caspase gene expression peaks during degeneration of the tick salivary glands. We explored the regulatory role of Rhipicephalus haemaphysaloides autophagy-related 5 (RhATG5) in the degeneration of tick salivary glands. During the fast feeding phase, RhATG5 was cleaved and both calcium concentration and the transcription of Rhcalpains increased in the salivary glands. Recombinant RhATG5 was cleaved by μ-calpain only in the presence of calcium; the mutant RhATG5191-199Δ was not cleaved. Treatment with 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E) led to programmed cell death in the salivary glands of unfed ticks in vitro, RhATG8-phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) was upregulated in ticks treated with low concentration of 20E. Conversely, RhATG8-PE decreased and Rhcaspase-7 increased in ticks treated with a high concentration of 20E and transformed autophagy to apoptosis. High concentrations of 20E led to the cleavage of RhATG5. Calcium concentration and expression of Rhcalpains were also upregulated in the tick salivary glands. RNA interference (RNAi) of RhATG5 in vitro inhibited both autophagy and apoptosis of the tick salivary glands. RNAi of RhATG5 in vivo significantly inhibited the normal feeding process. These results demonstrated that high concentrations of 20E led to the cleavage of RhATG5 by increasing the concentration of calcium and stimulated the transition from autophagy to apoptosis. '
 'Yellow fever (YF) is a zoonotic disease caused by the yellow fever virus (YFV) that infects both humans and non-human primates (NHPs). It is endemic in 34 countries in Africa and 13 in South America. In South America, YFV transmission occurs in two cycles: the sylvatic and urban. In the sylvatic cycle, transmission is maintained by sylvatic mosquito species of the Haemogogus and Sabethes genera between NHPs, with humans considered incidental hosts. If the virus establishes itself in the domestic Aedes aegypti mosquito, also a vector of both dengue and Zika viruses, transmission can be sustained in the absence of a NHP reservoir. In South America, the sylvatic cycle has historically been confined to Amazonian regions, but over the past 20 years, the area where YF is endemic in NHPs has seen rapid geographic expansion. In Brazil, this has resulted in 5 reassessments of the zone of YF endemicity since 2000, with the latest update in 2018 including the entire country. The reasons for this expansion are unknown. Outbreaks in Brazil’s South-East Atlantic forest in 2016–2017 and 2017–2018 have been the largest ever recorded in the country, in humans and NHPs, with cases reported in states that have never previously recorded YF. While there is no evidence of urban transmission in these outbreaks, confirmed human and NHP cases in the vicinity of Brazil’s largest cities, areas with high Aedes aegypti density, is a cause for concern. In addition to a lack of understanding of these interannual drivers of transmission, there is a general dearth of understanding of the seasonality of YF. Despite the seasonality of YF having long been well established, there has been little research on quantifying the associated environmental and climatic drivers of seasonality in South America. In this study, we investigated the drivers of YF transmission both intra and interannually, using temporally varying covariates related to climate, land-cover, vegetation, and human and NHP demographics. Covariates related to these were selected based on their previously demonstrated roles in vector-biology, increased suitability for disease transmission, or relationships with YF. By utilizing two model structures, we investigated the differential drivers of seasonal and interannual variation in YF incidence. These models were fit to the number of months reporting YF at each administrative level 1 geographic unit (for example, the province or state), using exhaustive model fitting in hierarchical negative-binomial regressions. The best performing models, as defined by the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC), were weighted and combined using Akaike weights to produce an ensemble model. Model robustness was confirmed using spatial block bootstrapping. Our models reproduced the spatiotemporal heterogeneities in YF transmission with coefficient of determination (R2) values of 0.43 (95% CI 0.41–0.45) for the interannual model and 0.66 (95% CI 0.64–0.67) for the seasonal model. For the interannual model, EVI, land-cover, and vegetation heterogeneity were the primary contributors to the variance explained by the model, and for the seasonal model, EVI, day temperature, and rainfall amplitude. Our models explain much of the spatiotemporal variation in YF in South America, both seasonally and across the period 2003–2016. Vegetation type (EVI), heterogeneity in vegetation (perhaps a proxy for habitat fragmentation), and land cover explain much of the trends in YF transmission seen. These findings may help understand the recent expansions of the YF endemic zone, as well as the highly seasonal nature of YF.'
 'Obsessive-compulsive disorder ( OCD ) is a mental health condition characterized by intrusive thoughts and repetitive behaviors. Pavlovian-instrumental transfer ( PIT ) is a phenomenon where the presence of a Pavlovian cue ( a conditioned stimulus ) affects instrumental behavior ( a learned response ). In this study, we investigated the effects of PIT on instrumental behavior in both clinical OCD patients and healthy controls. We found that PIT was reduced in OCD patients compared to healthy controls, suggesting that the Pavlovian system may not be functioning properly in OCD. This study provides insight into the cognitive and computational mechanisms underlying PIT in OCD and may have implications for treatment modalities focused on reducing compulsive behaviors.'
The Pan pathway is a crucial metabolic pathway for the survival of parasites. The Pan pathway is involved in the synthesis of coenzyme A (CoA), which is an essential cofactor for many metabolic reactions. The Pan pathway is conserved across different species of parasites, including Plasmodium and Toxoplasma. The Pan pathway is a potential target for drug development against parasites. The pathway is composed of several enzymes, including PanK, PanAx, PanD, PanE, PanF, and PanT. These enzymes are involved in the synthesis of Pan from pantothenic acid. The Pan pathway is essential for the survival of parasites, and inhibition of the pathway can lead to the death of the parasites. The Pan pathway is a potential target for drug development against parasites. The pathway is composed of several enzymes, including PanK, PanAx, PanD, PanE, PanF, and PanT. These enzymes are involved in the synthesis of Pan from pantothenic acid. The Pan pathway is essential for the survival of parasites, and inhibition of the pathway can lead to the death of the parasites.
 'Membrane proteins are responsible for substance transport and signal transduction across cell membranes. They are distinct from soluble proteins in that a significant fraction of their amino acids on the outer surface are in direct contact with the hydrophobic acyl chains of lipid molecules. In this work, we propose a new characteristic quantity, the membrane contact probability (MCP), to describe the likelihood of direct contact between the protein amino acids and the hydrophobic acyl chains of lipid molecules. We show that MCP can be predicted for any given sequence with a machine learning-based method by utilizing a training dataset extracted from MemProtMD, a database generated from molecular dynamics simulations for the membrane proteins with a known structure. As the first of many potential applications, we demonstrate that MCP can be used to systematically improve the prediction precision of the protein contact maps and structures. '
 'The COVID-19 pandemic has been managed through various non-pharmaceutical interventions, but it is difficult to predict which of these are the most effective for a given population. We developed a computationally efficient and scalable agent-based microsimulation framework called PanSim, which allows us to test control measures in multiple infection waves caused by the spread of a new virus variant in a city-sized societal environment using a unified framework fitted to realistic data. We found that vaccination strategies prioritising occupational risk groups minimise the number of infections but allow higher mortality while prioritising vulnerable groups minimises mortality but implies an increased infection rate. We also found that intensive vaccination along with non-pharmaceutical interventions can substantially suppress the spread of the virus, while low levels of vaccination, premature reopening may easily revert the epidemic to an uncontrolled state. Our analysis highlights that while vaccination protects the elderly from COVID-19, a large percentage of children will contract the virus, and we also show the benefits and limitations of various quarantine and testing scenarios. The uniquely detailed spatio-temporal resolution of PanSim allows the design and testing of complex, specifically targeted interventions with a large number of agents under dynamically changing conditions.'
 'Undernutrition is a major public health problem worldwide, particularly in low- and middle-income countries ( LMICs ). Environmental enteric dysfunction ( EED ) is a condition that affects the small intestine and is associated with undernutrition. The histologic features of EED are not well understood, but a recent study has developed a histology index to help identify and characterize the small bowel lesions associated with EED. The index was constructed by three gastrointestinal pathologists and was tested on duodenal biopsies from two cohorts where EED is prevalent ( Pakistan and Zambia) and North American children with and without gluten-sensitive enteropathy ( GSE). The index showed good inter-observer reliability and identified unique histologic features for EED, as well as those that correlated with host phenotype. The study suggests that the histology index can be useful in future clinical and translational studies of EED and other enteropathies. '
 'Game theory is a mathematical framework used to model interactions between rational decision-makers. In game theory, interactions between players are modeled as a game, where each player has a set of strategies to choose from and each strategy is associated with a payoff. The goal of game theory is to identify the optimal strategy for each player to choose in order to maximize their payoff. In game theory, there are two main types of games: sequential games and simultaneous games. In sequential games, players make their decisions one after the other, and each player has access to the previous decisions of the other players. In simultaneous games, players make their decisions at the same time, and each player has no access to the decisions of the other players. In this study, the authors introduce a new type of game called transparent games, where each player has a certain probability of observing the partner’s choice before deciding on their own action. The authors use evolutionary simulations to demonstrate that even a small probability of seeing the partner’s choice before one’s own decision substantially changes the evolutionary successful strategies. The authors find that action visibility enhances cooperation in an iterated coordination game, but reduces cooperation in a more competitive iterated Prisoner’s Dilemma. The authors’ results have implications for studies of human and animal social behavior, especially for the analysis of dyadic and group interactions.'
 'Telomeres are repetitive DNA sequences at the ends of chromosomes that protect them from degradation and fusion. However, with each cell division, telomeres shorten until they reach a critical length, triggering a state of crisis that can lead to cell death or the activation of alternative telomere lengthening mechanisms. One such mechanism is alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT), which is characterized by extreme telomere length heterogeneity and the absence of telomerase activity. In this study, the authors investigated the role of the Alpha Thalassemia/Mental Retardation Syndrome X-Linked (ATRX) gene in the initiation of ALT. They found that the loss of ATRX, coupled with telomere dysfunction during crisis, induced the ALT pathway in human fibroblasts, leading to replicative immortality. However, in epithelial cells, the loss of ATRX compromised the ability to escape crisis, although manifestations of the ALT phenotype, such as the presence of C-circles, were observed. The authors also found an increase in non-canonical variant repeats in ALT telomeres compared to non-ALT controls. These findings provide insights into the mechanisms underlying ALT and its role in cancer.'
'Toxoplasma gondii is an intracellular parasite that invades host cells and replicates within them. The parasite secretes virulent factors from specialized organelles called rhoptries, micronemes, and dense granules. These factors help the parasite invade host cells and survive within them. The mechanisms regulating the secretion of dense granules, which release effectors modulating host immune and metabolic responses, have not been well studied. Here, we investigated the role of the small GTPase Rab11A in dense granule secretion. We found that Rab11A regulates the cytoskeleton-driven transport of dense granules and the release of their content into the vacuolar space. Rab11A also regulates transmembrane protein trafficking and localization during parasite replication. Moreover, we found that Rab11A regulates extracellular parasite motility and adhesion to host cells. In line with these findings, we observed a polarized accumulation of Rab11A-positive vesicles and dense granules at the apical pole of extracellular motile and invading parasites, suggesting that apically polarized Rab11A-dependent delivery of cargo regulates early secretory events during parasite entry into host cells.'
 'The stimulation of a single neuron in the rat somatosensory cortex can elicit a behavioral response . The probability of a behavioral response does not depend appreciably on the duration or intensity of a constant stimulation , whereas the response probability increases significantly upon injection of an irregular current . Biological mechanisms that can potentially suppress a constant input signal are present in the dynamics of both neurons and synapses and seem ideal candidates to explain these experimental findings . Here , we study a large network of integrate-and-fire neurons with several salient features of neuronal populations in the rat barrel cortex . The model includes cellular spike-frequency adaptation , experimentally constrained numbers and types of chemical synapses endowed with short-term plasticity , and gap junctions . Numerical simulations of this model indicate that cellular and synaptic adaptation mechanisms alone may not suffice to account for the experimental results if the local network activity is read out by an integrator . However , a circuit that approximates a differentiator can detect the single-cell stimulation with a reliability that barely depends on the length or intensity of the stimulus , but that increases when an irregular signal is used . This finding is in accordance with the experimental results obtained for the stimulation of a regularly-spiking excitatory cell .', Introduction:  'A classical method used in neuroscience to understand cortical circuits is to determine how single neurons respond to a controlled sensory stimulus . If , for instance , one of a rat’s whiskers is moved by the experimenter , a change in firing of specific neurons can be measured in the barrel cortex , one of the most well studied parts of the primary sensory cortex [1] . The concept of “reverse physiology” turns this approach around by studying the inverse situation in which neurons in higher brain areas are stimulated and a behavioral or motor response can be elicited ( see [2] for early references on such experiments ) . The two kinds of experiments in combination then allow the linking of sensation and perception , one of the notoriously difficult problems in neuroscience . In the case that the stimulation affects only a single neuron , the outcome of the unconventional and technically challenging reverse physiology experiments are particularly striking: stimulating a single neuron in the motor cortex can evoke a whisker movement [3] , and single-cell stimulation in the barrel cortex—but not in the thalamus—leads to a weak but statistically significant behavioral response [4–6] . This contradicts prevailing hypotheses that relevant signals can only be encoded in the activity of large neural populations . Both the enormity of cortical networks—tens of thousands of neurons in the case of the somatosensory cortex [7]—and the apparent randomness of single-neuron spiking [8 , 9] have classically been evoked as arguments for population coding . If single spikes are unpredictable and noisy how can a few externally induced spikes lead to changes in behavior ? On the theoretical side , cortical populations have been modeled as ( locally ) random networks of synaptically coupled excitatory and inhibitory cells [10–12] ( many studies just take into account two distinct cell types ) . Even without the inclusion of explicit noise sources , these models can show asynchronous irregular activity [13–15] that is similar to that observed in the cortex of alert animals [16 , 17]; this kind of network noise can also be described analytically by stochastic mean-field methods ( see for instance [10 , 13 , 18–20] ) . Besides the autonomous activity of such networks , their linear and nonlinear response to global stimuli , i . e . applied to all neurons in the network , has been in focus [20–24] . However , injecting a current into a single neuron in such a generic network model can lead to sizable changes in a subpopulation’s activity as well [25 , 26]; this subpopulation can be regarded as a readout of the stimulus . If the readout population is somewhat oriented towards the direct postsynaptic partners of the stimulated cell , then the stimulus can be detected in the activity of this population [25] . If , more realistically , the readout is accomplished by a second recurrent network with feed-forward inhibition , as is most likely the case in the cortex , already a very small bias will lead to a detection performance comparable to that in the behavioral experiment [26] . Especially challenging for theoreticians are the results of the nanostimulation experiments in the barrel cortex of behaving rats [6] which demonstrated striking dependencies
 'Human skin is exposed to various environmental factors that cause DNA damage. This damage can lead to somatic mutations in skin cells, which may contribute to the development of skin cancer. In this study, researchers sequenced the genomes of single cell-derived clonal lineages obtained from primary skin cells of a large cohort of healthy individuals across a wide range of ages. They found that UV-induced base substitutions, insertions and deletions are prominent even in sun-shielded skin. They also detected accumulation of mutations due to spontaneous deamination of methylated cytosines as well as insertions and deletions characteristic of DNA replication errors in these cells. The endogenously induced somatic mutations and indels also demonstrate a linear increase with age, while UV-induced mutation load is age-independent. Finally, they show that DNA replication stalling at common fragile sites are potent sources of gross chromosomal rearrangements in human cells. These findings provide a comprehensive view of the various somatic genome changes that accumulate in skin cells of healthy donors and highlight the importance of endogenous DNA damage and DNA replication errors in facilitating genome instability and carcinogenesis in skin cells.'
 'Clonorchiasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by the fish-borne trematode Clonorchis sinensis. In Vietnam, an in-depth analysis of risk factors for the condition is missing. This study aimed to determine the prevalence of C . sinensis infection and associated risk factors in rural communities in northern Vietnam. A cross-sectional survey was conducted in 4 communes in Yen Bai and Thanh Hoa provinces where clonorchiasis is known to be present and raw fish consumption is a common practice. Using a simple random sampling approach, stool was collected from 841 participants over 6 years old for coprological examination, and a questionnaire measured knowledge, attitudes, and practices with regard to clonorchiasis in 757 participants over 15 years old. Univariable and multivariable logistic regression models were run to identify risk factors for infection with C . sinensis. The overall prevalence of C . sinensis infection was 40.4%, with commune prevalences ranging between 26.5% and 53.3%. In the final model, males were significantly more likely to be infected with C . sinensis (OR 2.00; 95% CI 1.31–3.05), recent consumption of raw fish (OR 8.00; 95% CI 4.78–13.36), low education level (OR 5.57; 95% CI 2.37–13.07), lack of treatment (OR 1.82; 95% CI 1.15–2.89), being between 19 to 39 years old (OR 6.46; 95% CI 1.25–33.37), and the presence of an unhygienic toilet (OR 2.74; 95% CI 1.53–4.92). This study demonstrated a high prevalence of C . sinensis infection in rural communities in northern Vietnam. Thus, control measures including mass drug administration for those communes should be applied to reduce the prevalence. Moreover, specific health education activities should be developed for risk groups in C . sinensis endemic areas.'
 'This study aimed to assess the occurrence and risk factors of skin infections among rural schoolchildren in southern Ethiopia by combining a frequentist and Bayesian approach. Using three-stage random sampling, we assessed 864 schoolchildren aged 7–14 years from the Wonago district in southern Ethiopia. We detected potential risk factors for scabies, tungiasis, and tinea infections and recorded their hygienic practices and socio-demographic information. The frequentist model revealed a clustering effect of 8.8% at the classroom level and an insignificant effect at the school level. The Bayesian model revealed a clustering effect of 16% at the classroom level and 5.3% at the school level. Almost three-fourths of the sample had at least one type of skin problem, and boys were at higher overall risk than girls (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] 1.55 [95% Bayesian credible interval [BCI] 1.01, 2.28]). Risk factors included unclean fingernails (aOR 1.85 [95% BCI 1.08, 2.97]), not washing the body (aOR 1.90 [95% BCI 1.21, 2.85]), and hair (aOR 3.07 [95% BCI 1.98, 4.57]) with soap every week; sharing a bed (aOR 1.97 [95% BCI 1.27, 2.89]), clothes (aOR 5.65 [95% BCI 3.31, 9.21]), or combs (aOR 3.65 [95% BCI 2.28, 5.53]); and living in a poor household (aOR 1.76 [95% BCI 1.03, 2.83]). Washing legs and feet with soap daily was identified as a protective factor for each of the three skin diseases (aOR 0.23 [95% BCI 0.15, 0.33]). We observed high variation in skin problems at the classroom level, indicating the presence of shared risk factors in these locations. The findings suggest the need to improve children’s personal hygiene via health education by schoolteachers and health workers.'
 'Mycobacteria are known to cause chronic infections in humans, such as tuberculosis and leprosy. These infections are characterized by the formation of granulomas, which are clusters of immune cells that surround and contain the bacteria. The zebrafish model of mycobacterial infection allows for the study of the early stages of granuloma formation. In this study, the authors found that miR-206 is upregulated in zebrafish embryos infected with Mycobacterium marinum. They also found that antagomir-mediated knockdown of miR-206 is protective against infection. The authors observed enhanced recruitment of neutrophils to sites of infection in miR-206 knockdown embryos and found that this recruitment was dependent on the Cxcl12/Cxcr4 signalling axis. Together, these findings suggest that miR-206 plays a role in the suppression of the Cxcl12/Cxcr4 signalling axis, which is important for the recruitment of neutrophils to sites of infection and the control of mycobacterial growth. This study highlights the importance of miRNA in the regulation of host immune responses to mycobacterial infections and suggests that miR-206 may be a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of mycobacterial infections.'
 'Robustness in developing and homeostatic tissues is supported by various types of spatiotemporal cell-to-cell interactions. To extract and compare these rules across many tissues with potentially different length and timescales of coordination, we demonstrate that graph neural network ( GNN ) models are suited for this purpose. Analyzing the live mammalian epidermis data, where spatiotemporal graphs constructed from cell tracks and cell contacts are given as inputs, GNN discovers distinct neighbor cell fate coordination rules that depend on the region of the body. This approach demonstrates how the GNN framework is powerful in inferring general cell interaction rules from live data without prior knowledge of the signaling involved. We further demonstrate how the rules learned by the GNN model can be extracted by ablating the input features, re-configuring the model step-by-step, and employing the attribution method. As a result, we find neighboring cell fate coordination rules that have been overlooked in the paw skin data, as well as rules that are consistent with the previously conducted fate imbalance analyses. For our main application, we analyze the novel tracking data of the ear skin stem cells, and find an additional coordination rule that is absent in the paw skin. We further confirm the validity of the method by applying it to data generated by numerical simulations that encode stochastic cell dynamics mimicking the homeostatic epidermis. Together, this work demonstrates how the GNN model can be applied to highly stochastic kinetics with agent loss and gain, and how it can be utilized in solving the mechanism of multicellular kinetics systematically.'
 'This study presents a novel method called tensor sparse canonical correlation analysis ( TSCCA ) for identifying cancer-related miRNA-gene modules across multiple cancers. TSCCA is able to overcome the drawbacks of existing solutions and capture both the cancer-shared and specific miRNA-gene co-expressed modules with better biological interpretations. We comprehensively evaluate the performance of TSCCA using a set of simulated data and matched miRNA/gene expression data across 33 cancer types from the TCGA database. We uncover several dysfunctional miRNA-gene modules with important biological functions and statistical significance. These modules can advance our understanding of miRNA regulatory mechanisms of cancer and provide insights into miRNA-based treatments for cancer. Our main contributions are two-fold: ( 1 ) We design a statistical learning model TSCCA , which is equivalent to a ℓ0-norm constrained tensor-based model , and develop an efficient block-coordinate descent algorithm to solve it. ( 2 ) We apply TSCCA to a multi-omics data set of 33 cancer types from TCGA database and discover some dysfunctional miRNA-gene modules with important biological functions and statistical significance .'
 'This study investigates how short- and long-term plasticity interact to shape synaptic dynamics. The authors used numerical simulations and mathematical analysis of a calcium-based model to study the impact of spike-timing and firing rate changes on plasticity. They found that short- and long-term plasticity are tuned together to adapt plasticity to area-specific activity statistics such as firing rates. The authors suggest that short- and long-term plasticity mechanisms are intertwined and work together to shape synaptic dynamics. This study provides new insights into the mechanisms underlying synaptic plasticity and its role in learning and memory.'
 'This study compared the immune response of Australian black flying foxes and ferrets to Hendra virus infection. The study found that bats had a stronger immune response to the virus, which may explain why they do not develop clinical disease. The study used proteomics to analyze the protein expression in the lungs of infected bats and ferrets. The results showed that the immune response in bats was different from that in ferrets, with bats showing a stronger response to type I interferon signaling. The study also found that the expression of CXCL10, a chemokine involved in the immune response, was higher in bats than in ferrets. These findings suggest that bats have a more effective immune response to Hendra virus infection than ferrets, which may explain why they do not develop clinical disease.'
 'CLiP' is a new method for detecting heterogeneity in single-trait genome-wide association studies (GWAS). It calculates a weighted sum of correlations between polygenic risk scores (PRS) on the case/control liability scale. The method is based on the assumption that case/control GWAS behaves according to a liability threshold model rather than a logistic model. In a homogeneous set of cases, predictors with effect sizes of the same sign are not uncorrelated but negatively correlated. CLiP can detect heterogeneity in schizophrenia and other traits. It can also be extended to accommodate continuous predictors (CLiP-X) and quantitative phenotypes (CLiP-Y). The method is robust to false positive confounding factors such as ancestry. CLiP is a powerful tool for detecting heterogeneity in single-trait GWAS and can be applied to a wide range of phenotypes and predictors.
 'This study aimed to develop a convolutional neural network ( CNN ) model to identify cytopathic effects ( CPE ) induced by influenza virus infection in Madin-Darby canine kidney ( MDCK ) cells. The CNN model was trained using 601 images of influenza-infected and mock-infected MDCK cells, and tested using 400 images. The model achieved a recognition rate of 99.75% for influenza-infected cells. The specificity of the model was 100%, as it did not recognize any of the six other non-influenza viruses. The model was further tested using 1190 images from a new experiment, and the recognition rates at 16, 28, and 40 hours post-infection were 71.8, 87.46, and 98.25%, respectively. This study demonstrates the potential of CNN models to enhance the identification of influenza virus in clinical practice.'
 'Herpesviruses are known to encode a number of inhibitors of host cell death, including RIP Homotypic Interaction Motif ( RHIM ) -containing proteins. Varicella zoster virus ( VZV ) is a member of the alphaherpesvirus subfamily and is responsible for causing chickenpox and shingles. We have identified a novel viral RHIM in the VZV capsid triplex protein, open reading frame ( ORF ) 20, that acts as a host cell death inhibitor. Like the human cellular RHIMs in RIPK1 and RIPK3 that stabilise the necrosome in TNF-induced necroptosis, and the viral RHIM in M45 from murine cytomegalovirus that inhibits cell death, the ORF20 RHIM is capable of forming fibrillar functional amyloid complexes. Notably, the ORF20 RHIM forms hybrid amyloid complexes with human ZBP1, a cytoplasmic sensor of viral nucleic acid. Although VZV can inhibit TNF-induced necroptosis, the ORF20 RHIM does not appear to be responsible for this inhibition. In contrast, the ZBP1 pathway is identified as important for VZV infection. Mutation of the ORF20 RHIM renders the virus incapable of efficient spread in ZBP1-expressing HT-29 cells, an effect which can be reversed by the inhibition of caspases. Therefore we conclude that the VZV ORF20 RHIM is important for preventing ZBP1-driven apoptosis during VZV infection, and propose that it mediates this effect by sequestering ZBP1 into decoy amyloid assemblies. This finding could afford a better understanding of human disease caused by VZV and the underlying neural computations.'
 'Infectious diseases are caused by exposure to a pathogen, which can be a virus, bacteria, or parasite. The risk of infection depends on three factors: exposure, hazard, and vulnerability. Exposure refers to contact with the pathogen, hazard refers to the likelihood of infection given exposure, and vulnerability refers to the ability of a person to avoid or mitigate exposure or hazard. In this study, we aimed to quantify the contributions of exposure, hazard, and vulnerability to the presence and intensity of Schistosoma haematobium infection in 13 villages along the Senegal River in Senegal. We collected parasitological data from 821 school-aged children, survey data from 411 households where those children resided, and ecological data from all 24 village water access sites. We found that hazard was the most important component of S. haematobium presence, followed by vulnerability. Exposure was the most important component of S. haematobium intensity, followed by hazard. Our findings highlight the importance of implementing both social and environmental interventions to complement mass drug administration in campaigns to control and eliminate schistosomiasis.'
 'Lassa fever (LF) is a hemorrhagic fever caused by the Lassa virus (LASV) and is endemic to some parts of West Africa. In 2018, Nigeria experienced a large LASV outbreak, with over 3498 suspected and 633 confirmed positive cases. Here, we genetically characterize five recent LASV isolates collected from the 2018 outbreak in Nigeria. Three isolates were further evaluated in vivo and despite being closely related and from the same spatial/geographic region of Nigeria, only one of the three isolates proved lethal in strain 13 guinea pigs and non-human primates (NHP). Additionally, this isolate exhibited atypical pathogenesis characteristics in the NHP model, most notably respiratory failure, not commonly described in hemorrhagic cases of LF. These results suggest that there is considerable phenotypic heterogeneity in LASV infections in Nigeria, which leads to a multitude of pathogenesis characteristics that could account for differences between subclinical and lethal LF infections. Most importantly, the development of disease models using currently circulating LASV strains in West Africa are critical for the evaluation of potential vaccines and medical countermeasures.'
 'Schistosomiasis is a serious parasitic disease that affects more than 260 million people worldwide. It is caused by the blood-dwelling parasite Schistosoma mansoni, which alters the hematological and biochemical parameters in humans. This study aimed to evaluate the hematological and biochemical changes in S. mansoni infected adult patients compared to apparently healthy controls. The study found that the prevalence of anemia and thrombocytopenia was higher among S. mansoni infected patients. The median white blood cell count, red blood cell count, red blood cell indices, and platelet indices were significantly lower among S. mansoni infected patients compared to healthy controls. On the other hand, the median eosinophil count was significantly higher among S. mansoni infected patients compared to healthy controls. The study also showed significantly elevated values of serum alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, and direct bilirubin and lower albumin, total cholesterol, and triglycerides among S. mansoni infected patients compared to healthy controls. The findings of this study showed significantly altered hematological values and liver function tests among S. mansoni infected patients compared to healthy controls. Therefore, screening of S. mansoni infected patients for various hematological and biochemical parameters and providing treatment to the underlying abnormalities is very crucial to avoid schistosomiasis associated morbidity and mortality.'
 'This study aimed to investigate the mechanisms underlying suboptimal antibody responses in HCV infection. We detected HCV E2-specific B cells directly ex vivo at multiple acute infection timepoints in 29 HCV-infected subjects with a wide range of anti-E2 IgG titers, including 17 persistently infected subjects and 12 subjects with spontaneous clearance of infection. We performed multi-dimensional flow cytometric analysis of sE2+ and E2-nonspecific (sE2-) class-switched B cells (csBC). In sE2+ csBC from both persistence and clearance subjects, frequencies of resting memory B cells (rMBC) were reduced, frequencies of activated MBC (actMBC) and tissue-like MBC (tlMBC) were increased, and expression of FCRL5, an IgG receptor, was significantly upregulated. Across all subjects, plasma anti-E2 IgG levels were positively correlated with frequencies of sE2+ rMBC and sE2+ actMBC, while anti-E2 IgG levels were negatively correlated with levels of FCRL5 expression on sE2+ rMBC and PD-1 expression on sE2+ actMBC. Upregulation of FCRL5 on sE2+ rMBC and upregulation of PD-1 on sE2+ actMBC may limit anti-E2 antibody production in vivo. Strategies that limit upregulation of these molecules could potentially generate higher titers of protective antibodies against HCV or other pathogens.'
