The development of neural networks from an immature to a mature state is crucial for the complex computations that underlie cognition. In both rodents and humans, the first organized pattern of neural activity that appears in cortical circuits is a spindle-like oscillation, known as spindle bursts in rodents and delta brushes in humans. These immature network activities are transient and are replaced by perpetual, complex patterns of neural activity in the mature cortex. A study using high spatiotemporal resolution in vivo electrophysiology in immature mice found that mature cortical processes emerge rapidly and simultaneously after a discrete but volatile transition period at the beginning of the second postnatal week of rodent development. This transition is characterized by relative neural quiescence, after which spatially distributed, temporally precise, and internally organized activity occurs. A similar developmental trajectory was demonstrated in humans, suggesting an evolutionarily conserved mechanism that could facilitate a transition in network operation. The transient quiescent period is hypothesized to be a requisite for the subsequent emergence of coordinated cortical networks. These findings suggest that mechanisms to developmentally regulate functional network capacity may be evolutionarily conserved and manifest on the systems level as similar, discrete states.
The article discusses how decisions are made through the accumulation of noisy evidence to a threshold or bound, and how this mechanism explains the effect of stimulus strength on decision speed, accuracy, and confidence. A study is presented where unbiased noise is added to motion-selective regions of visual cortex in both humans and monkeys, leading to faster decisions and higher confidence despite reduced accuracy. These results support the bounded evidence accumulation model. Decision-making that combines information from different sources or across time is of particular interest in neuroscience, as it serves as a model for cognitive function. Bounded evidence accumulation models, such as drift diffusion, race, and attractor models, offer a framework for linking choice, reaction time, and confidence. These models depict the decision process as a race between competing accumulators, with the decision terminating when the accumulated evidence for one alternative reaches a threshold, thereby determining both the choice and the decision time. Confidence in the decision derives from a mapping between the decision variable and the probability that a decision based on this variable will be correct. The noisiness of momentary evidence causes the decision variable to wander, with the expectation (mean) of the momentary evidence increments or decrements the decision variable deterministically. If the bounded accumulation of noisy evidence underlies choice accuracy, reaction time, and confidence, then a selective manipulation of the noise should produce quantitatively consistent effects on all three measures. However, testing these predictions has been limited due to the lack of a controlled method for selectively increasing noise. The article aims to manipulate the variance associated with the neural representation of momentary evidence without affecting its mean, using a manipulation of the motion information in a random dot motion display. This manipulation is verified through neuronal recordings from direction selective neurons in the middle temporal and medial superior temporal areas of the macaque visual cortex, and then tested for its influence on the three observables of choice behavior in monkeys and humans.
Mutations in the inositol 5-phosphatase OCRL cause Lowe syndrome and Dent's disease, which are characterized by clinical manifestations primarily attributed to intracellular sorting defects. However, recent studies have shown that OCRL, a direct clathrin interactor, impacts clathrin-mediated endocytosis, resulting in an endocytic defect. In Lowe syndrome patient fibroblasts, the absence of OCRL impairs endocytic clathrin coat dynamics, leading to an accumulation of clathrin-coated vesicles that fail to lose their coat. These vesicles nucleate at least a cohort of the intracellular actin comets previously described in Lowe syndrome patient cells. OCRL has a modular structure and is expressed in all tissues, with a broad subcellular distribution mediated by interactions with proteins that control membrane traffic and the actin cytoskeleton. The human genome contains 10 genes encoding inositol 5-phosphatases, nine of which act on inositol phospholipids. Mutations in one such gene, OCRL, give rise to Lowe syndrome and type 2 Dent's disease, two X-linked diseases. Phosphoinositide levels are dynamically and spatially regulated by kinases and phosphatases, establishing a code of membrane identity, and OCRL is a key regulator of this process. The broad intracellular localization of OCRL may reflect its importance in preventing the build-up of ectopic intracellular pools of PI (4, 5) P2 and PI (3, 4, 5) P3. The pathological manifestations of Lowe syndrome and Dent's disease are thought to arise from abnormal protein sorting and membrane recycling, as loss of OCRL would disrupt the appropriate coordination between membrane progression and changes in phosphoinositide composition. One open question is the physiological significance of the localization of OCRL at endocytic clathrin-coated pits, where it may play a role in preventing the accumulation of PI (4, 5) P2 on post-endocytic membranes and assisting in the fission reaction of endocytosis.
The distribution of signaling proteins, FGF and FGFR, in Drosophila's larval wing imaginal-disc and air-sac-primordium (ASP) has been characterized, revealing a mechanism where morphogens self-generate precise tissue-specific gradient contours through feedback regulation of cytoneme-mediated dispersion. FGF, produced in the wing imaginal-disc, moves to the ASP through FGFR-containing cytonemes, forming a recipient-specific FGF gradient in the ASP. Acting as a morphogen, FGF activates concentration-dependent gene expression, inducing pointed-P1 at higher and cut at lower levels. The transcription-factors Pointed-P1 and Cut antagonize each other and differentially regulate formation of FGFR-containing cytonemes, creating regions with higher-to-lower numbers of FGF-receiving cytonemes. This robust mechanism of gradient formation is universal for diverse tissue shapes and patterns created by conserved paracrine signaling proteins such as Transforming Growth Factor β (TGFβ), Hedgehog (Hh), Wingless (Wg/WNT), Epidermal Growth Factor (EGF), and Fibroblast growth factor (FGF). These signals coordinate responses in a large population of cells through the generation of concentration gradients. Recent advancements in live imaging technology facilitated the discovery of a radically different mechanism of signal dispersion, where signals move directly from producing to recipient cells through actin-based specialized filopodia or cytonemes. Cytonemes and cytoneme-like projections are now known to be required for cell-cell communication mediated by many families of signaling proteins, including a cytoneme-dependent mechanism for generating concentration-dependent signaling responses to the Hh and Dpp morphogens. However, how local cytoneme-mediated cell-to-cell communication might create long-range signal gradients to regulate tissue morphogenesis is unknown. The study of Drosophila FGF family protein, Branchless (Bnl), revealed Bnl distribution with high sensitivity and precision, allowing direct visualization of an endogenous signal and signaling gradient. Bnl moves target-specifically from the producing cells to the ASP through cytonemes and forms a long-range concentration gradient by dynamically adopting the recipient ASP-specific shapes and contours. Bnl functions as a morphogen, and the Bnl morphogen gradient forms through a novel self-regulatory mechanism of cytoneme-mediated signaling. This finding showed an example of morphogenesis in which cytoneme-dependent signaling can provide precision and adaptability in shaping long-range positional gradients and tissue architectures in space and time.
The article discusses the use of genetic markers to study ancestry and historical connections between different population groups in sub-Saharan Africa. A genome-wide, haplotype-based analysis was performed on 48 sub-Saharan African groups, revealing shared ancestry between coastal populations and Eurasian haplotypes due to admixture over the last 7000 years. Eastern and Southern Niger-Congo speaking groups also share ancestry with Central West Africans as a result of recent population expansions. The study highlights the relevance of these findings to genetic epidemiology, as most sub-Saharan populations share ancestry with groups from outside of their current geographic region due to gene-flow within the last 4000 years. Advances in DNA analysis technology have led to an increase in genomic data availability, but less progress has been made in studies of diseases in Africa compared to those in populations of European descent. Consortia are focusing on understanding the genetic basis of infectious and non-communicable diseases in Africa, and recent studies have described patterns of genetic variation across the continent. Genetic epidemiology studies aim to uncover novel relationships between genes, the environment, and disease, and the structure of genetic variation is important in their design, analysis, and interpretation. Admixture is an increasingly recognized feature of human populations across the globe, and genome-wide analyses of African populations are refining previous models of the continent’s history and its impact on genetic diversity. The article discusses the transition from hunting and gathering to pastoralist and agricultural lifestyles, and the known expansion of Bantu languages across Africa within the last 3 ky. The African Genome Variation Project found evidence of widespread hunter-gatherer ancestry in African populations, including ancient (9 ky) Khoesan ancestry in the Igbo from Nigeria, and more recent hunter-gatherer ancestry in eastern (2.5–4.5 ky) and southern (0.9--4 ky) African populations. These studies provide an important description of the movement of alleles and haplotypes into and within the continent, but questions remain of the extent and timing of key events and their impact on contemporary populations.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a widespread human tumor virus associated with several cancers, including B and epithelial cell malignancies. Normally, T cells prevent EBV-associated malignancies, but in the absence of a healthy immune system, such as following organ transplant or HIV infection, EBV can transform B cells leading to increased rates of lymphoma. EBV infection leads to rapid B cell proliferation and survival through the expression of viral oncogenes, such as EBNA2, EBNA3A, EBNA3C, and LMP1. LMP1 mimics a pro-survival TNF receptor that signals constitutively through the NFκB pathway to promote proliferation and suppress apoptosis in transformed cells. However, recent work has shown that early after infection, B cells rapidly proliferate despite low levels of LMP1 expression and NFκB activation. This study aimed to define the mechanism of survival in the absence of LMP1/NFκB early after infection. The researchers used BH3 profiling to query mitochondrial regulation of apoptosis and defined a transition from uninfected B cells (BCL-2) to early-infected (MCL-1/BCL-2) and immortalized cells (BFL-1). This dynamic change in B cell survival mechanisms is unique to virus-infected cells and relies on regulation of MCL-1 mitochondrial localization and BFL-1 transcription by the viral EBNA3A protein. This study defines a new role for EBNA3A in the suppression of apoptosis with implications for EBV lymphomagenesis.
The C-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII), the largest subunit of which is RPB1, undergoes dynamic post-translational modifications that regulate the co-transcriptional recruitment of enzymatic complexes, thereby coordinating chromatin states and nascent RNA processing. Extensive phosphorylation of serine residues at the CTD, particularly at the structurally-disordered C-terminal domain, plays a crucial role in this process. This domain is composed of multiple heptapeptide repeats with a consensus sequence Y1-S2-P3-T4-S5-P6-S7. Serine-5 and Serine-7 phosphorylation marks transcription initiation, while Serine-2 phosphorylation coincides with productive elongation. In vertebrates, the CTD has eight non-canonical substitutions of Serine-7 into Lysine-7, which can be acetylated (K7ac). Here, the authors describe mono- and di-methylation of CTD Lysine-7 residues (K7me1 and K7me2), which are observed during the earliest transcription stages and precede or accompany Serine-5 and Serine-7 phosphorylation. In contrast, K7ac is associated with RNAPII elongation, Serine-2 phosphorylation, and mRNA expression. An unexpected balance between RNAPII K7 methylation and acetylation at gene promoters fine-tunes gene expression levels. Transcription of protein-coding genes involves a sequence of RNA processing events that occur at different stages of the transcription cycle. Co-transcriptional recruitment of chromatin modifiers and RNA processing machinery is modulated through a complex array of post-translational modifications at the CTD of RNAPII. This unique domain constitutes a docking platform for protein complexes that cap, splice, and polyadenylate newly-made RNAs. The CTD integrates signaling cascades that coordinate the DNA damage response and chromatin remodeling with gene expression. The CTD is a large, structurally disordered domain composed of a tandem heptapeptide repeat structure with the canonical sequence Y1-S2-P3-T4-S5-P6-S7. Extensive remodeling of the CTD occurs during distinct steps of the transcription cycle. RNAPII binds to promoter regions in a hypophosphorylated state, before the CTD becomes phosphorylated at Serine-5 (S5p) and Serine-7 (S7p), marking the earliest stages of transcription. Productive elongation is characterized by an increase in phosphorylation of Serine-2 (S2p) throughout gene bodies, with the highest levels found around transcription end sites. S5p is important for recruitment of the capping machinery, while S2p is involved in the recruitment of splicing and polyadenylation factors. Although the tandem repeat structure of the CTD was acquired very early in eukaryotic evolution, and general features of serine phosphorylation are fairly conserved from yeast to mammals, the number of repeats is highly variable among different taxa. The most complex multicellular organisms, such as vertebrates, generally have longer CTDs, whereas Drosophila melanogaster, Caenorhabditis elegans, and unicellular yeast have 44, 42, and 26–29 copies, respectively. The mammalian CTD retains a core of 21 consensus repeats but has accumulated a diversity of non-consensus repeats, particularly at its most C-terminal region. In vertebrates, non-canonical amino-acid residues occur most frequently at the seventh position of the heptapeptide repeat, and the most frequent substitution replaces the canonical S7 residue with a lysine (K7). The number of non-canonical K7-containing repeats increases from zero in yeast to one, three, and eight repeats in C. elegans, D. melanogaster, and vertebrates, respectively. Previous work has shown that non-canonical CTD-K7 residues can be acetylated, and that CTD-K7ac is associated with transcriptional pausing at epidermal growth factor (EGF)-inducible genes in mouse fibroblasts. Evolutionary analyses also suggest that CTD-K7ac played a role in the origin of complex Metazoan lineages.
The Swi2/Snf2 ATPases are a large and diverse class of proteins that regulate the spatial arrangement and histone composition of nucleosomes. They are best known as the principal catalytic subunits of large chromatin remodeling complexes. Mot1, a single subunit remodeler, dissociates TATA box-binding protein (TBP) from DNA in an ATP-dependent manner, providing a useful system to study the structural mechanisms of Swi2/Snf2 ATPases. A study reports the crystal structure of the N-terminal domain of Mot1 in complex with TBP, DNA, and the transcription regulator negative cofactor 2 (NC2). The data shows that Mot1 reduces DNA:NC2 interactions and unbends DNA as compared to the TBP:DNA:NC2 state, suggesting that Mot1 primes TBP:NC2 displacement in an ATP-independent manner. The Swi2/Snf2 domain of Mot1 associates with the upstream DNA and the histone fold of NC2, revealing parallels to some nucleosome remodelers. This study provides a structural framework for how a Swi2/Snf2 ATPase interacts with its substrate DNA:protein complex.
In mammalian oocytes, Shugoshin-like protein 2 (Sgol2) plays multiple roles in the coordination of accurate chromosome segregation, including protecting cohesin, turning off the spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC), promoting chromosome bi-orientation, facilitating kinetochore-microtubule interactions, and limiting bivalent stretching. Sgol2's ability to protect cohesin and silence the SAC relies on its interaction with PP2A, with direct binding to Mad2. However, its effects on bivalent stretching and kinetochore-microtubule interactions are independent of PP2A and mediated by recruitment of MCAK and inhibition of Aurora C kinase activity, respectively. These interactions enable Sgol2 to link many of the processes essential for faithful chromosome segregation.Meiotic chromosome segregation is a complex process requiring the coordination of various biochemical processes. Sgol2, with its multi-domain structure, has an essential role in coordinating these processes. Its N-terminal homodimeric coiled coil specifically binds PP2A, and mutations in these residues affect PP2A binding and cohesion protection, suggesting that the interaction of PP2A with Sgol2's coiled coil is essential for protecting cohesin from separase at the first meiotic division. Additionally, Sgol2's C-terminal Mad2 Interaction Motif (MIM) allows it to bind Mad2, which is necessary for recruiting the phosphatase to kinetochores in vivo.The interaction between Sgol2 and PP2A is crucial for maintaining cohesion and silencing the SAC during meiosis I. Sgol2 and PP2A co-localize at inner kinetochores of bivalent chromosomes at metaphase I in wild-type oocytes, but neither protein is detected at this location in sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes. Microinjection of wild-type Sgol2 encoding mRNA into sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes restores accumulation at kinetochores of both Sgol2 and PP2A at metaphase I, while mutations affecting PP2A binding fail to do so. Moreover, mutations affecting PP2A binding also fail to restore cohesion protection in sgol2Δ/Δ oocytes, further highlighting the importance of the Sgol2-PP2A interaction.In summary, Sgol2, with its N-terminal coiled coil binding PP2A and C-terminal MIM binding Mad2, plays a vital role in maintaining cohesion, silencing the SAC, and coordinating various aspects of chromosome segregation during meiosis I. The interaction between Sgol2 and PP2A is crucial for protecting cohesin from separase and maintaining cohesion, while the binding of Sgol2's MIM to Mad2 is necessary for recruiting the phosphatase to kinetochores in vivo.
The bacterium Streptococcus pneumoniae, a leading cause of invasive disease in infants, particularly in low-income settings, requires asymptomatic carriage in the nasopharynx before disease can occur. The duration of this carriage episode varies and is currently understood at the serotype level. A study combined longitudinal swab data and whole genome sequence data to estimate that pneumococcal genomic variation accounted for 63% of the phenotype variation, while host traits such as age and previous carriage accounted for less than 5%. Further analysis partitioned this heritability into both lineage and locus effects, identifying serotype, drug-resistance, and other significant locus effects as the largest sources of variation in carriage duration. A pan-genome-wide association study identified prophage sequences as being associated with decreased carriage duration, potentially by disrupting the competence mechanism. These findings support theoretical models of pneumococcal competition and antibiotic resistance. Understanding and predicting the amount of time spent in the nasopharynx is critical for controlling transmission and predicting the epidemiology of this bacterium. The nasopharynx is a complex niche, and the average nasopharyngeal duration period is affected by a large number of factors, including host immune defense, other bacterial species, and other pneumococcal lineages. The study aimed to determine the overall importance of the pathogen genotype in carriage duration in a human population and to identify and quantify the elements of the genome responsible for the variation in carriage duration. By combining epidemiological modelling of longitudinal swab data with genome wide association study methods, heritability estimates for carriage duration were made, and the variation caused by each individual factor was quantified.
C4 photosynthesis, a complex trait found in at least 60 plant lineages, has evolved independently through diverse and flexible evolutionary paths that can be grouped into four major trajectories. A meta-analysis of 18 lineages containing species that use C3, C4, or intermediate C3-C4 forms of photosynthesis was conducted to parameterize a 16-dimensional phenotypic landscape. A novel Bayesian approach based on a hidden Markov model was then developed and experimentally verified to predict how the C4 phenotype evolved. The analysis found that the order of C4 trait acquisition is flexible and driven by non-photosynthetic drivers, indicating that the flexibility of the underlying molecular mechanisms facilitated the convergent evolution of this complex trait. The convergent evolution of complex traits is common, with examples including the camera-like eyes of cephalopods, vertebrates, and cnidaria, and the different photosynthetic machineries of plants. C4 photosynthesis is a highly complex and convergent trait, making it an ideal system for the mathematical modelling of complex trait evolution. Understanding the evolutionary events that have generated C4 photosynthesis on many independent occasions has the potential to inform approaches being undertaken to engineer C4 photosynthesis into C3 crop species. The C4 pathway is estimated to have first evolved between 32 and 25 million years ago in response to multiple ecological drivers, including decreasing atmospheric CO2 concentration. C4 species have since radiated to represent the most productive crops and native vegetation on the planet because modifications to their leaves increase the efficiency of photosynthesis in the sub-tropics and tropics.
Influenza A virus (IAV) is a negative-sense, single-stranded RNA virus that depends on the host cell's protein synthesis machinery for replication. IAV causes significant public health problems and has been shown to shut off host gene expression to prioritize viral mRNA translation. Two mechanisms of host shutoff are direct co-opting of the translation machinery and viral-induced degradation of host mRNAs. IAV has been found to utilize both mechanisms, leading to reduced host mRNA levels and increased viral mRNA translation.A study using RNA-sequencing and ribosome profiling found that IAV transcripts are not preferentially translated and that the decline in cellular protein synthesis is mediated by viral takeover of the mRNA pool. Short transcripts are less affected by IAV, and mRNAs that are refractory to IAV infection are enriched in cell maintenance processes such as oxidative phosphorylation. Continuous oxidative phosphorylation activity is important for viral propagation, suggesting a mechanism that facilitates the translation of genes with important housekeeping functions.IAV has been shown to degrade host mRNAs through cap-snatching, inhibition of polyadenylation, and degradation of the host RNA polymerase II complex. A highly conserved IAV protein, PA-X, was recently discovered to selectively degrade host mRNAs, contributing to host shutoff. However, fundamental questions remain unanswered, such as the relative contribution of host mRNA degradation versus direct manipulation of translation to host shutoff and the extent of the virus's mechanisms to ensure more effective translation of its own mRNAs.A systematic approach was taken to explore the relative contribution of direct co-opting of the translation machinery and reduction of host RNA levels to the reduction in host protein synthesis. RNA sequencing, ribosome profiling, and Single molecule Fluorescence in-situ Hybridization were used to globally map the changes in host genes RNA and translation levels during IAV infection. The results showed that host shutoff is mainly achieved by reduction in cellular mRNAs levels, and IAV transcripts are not preferably translated. Additionally, host transcripts are affected differently by IAV infection, and transcripts encoding oxidative phosphorylation related proteins are less affected by IAV infection. Their protein levels remain stable throughout infection and their continuous expression supports the energetic demands that are essential for virus replication.
The transcription factor RpaA is the master regulator of circadian transcription in cyanobacteria, controlling genome-wide oscillations in mRNA abundance. Deletion of rpaA does not affect viability in constant light conditions, but renders cells inviable in cycling conditions due to an inability to maintain appropriate energy status at night, lack of carbon reserve accumulation during the day, and defects in transcription of genes crucial for carbohydrate store utilization at night. Reconstruction of carbon utilization pathways and provision of an external carbon source restore energy charge and viability of the rpaA- strain in light/dark cycling conditions. These observations highlight the significance of a circadian output pathway controlling and temporally coordinating essential pathways in carbon metabolism to enhance fitness of cells facing periodic energy limitations. Cyanobacteria, like many organisms, have evolved circadian clocks to align biological activities with diurnal environmental changes. In Synechococcus elongatus PCC7942, the core circadian oscillator is comprised of KaiA, KaiB, and KaiC proteins, generating oscillations in the phosphorylation state of KaiC. Time information from KaiC is transmitted to RpaA, driving circadian changes in gene expression. Exposure to darkness creates unique metabolic demands in cyanobacteria, and the rpaA- strain exhibits defects in cell growth and viability in cyclic, but not constant light environments. Investigation into these defects reveals a crucial role for circadian regulation of gene expression in alternating light/dark cycles.
Coiled coils are well-understood protein folds with a high level of structural detail, being the first fold described in atomic detail and the only one whose backbone structure can be computed with parametric equations. They consist of at least two α-helices, wound into superhelical bundles and held together by a mostly hydrophobic core. A range of other periodicities is accessible to coiled coils, which is only restrained by the periodicity of the unperturbed α-helix. This restraint is responsible for the supercoiling of the bundle, with heptad coiled coils having a left-handed twist and hendecad and pentadecad coiled coils having right-handedness. Many naturally occurring coiled coils contain transitions between segments of different periodicity or harbor discontinuities that retain the α-helical structure but perturb the periodicity locally. The best understood discontinuities are insertions of 3 or 4 residues, close to the periodicity of 3.63 of α-helices, termed stammers and stutters. However, insertions of 2 and 6 residues, which should cause the greatest strain on α-helical geometry, break the α-helices to form short β-strands, which associate into a triangular supersecondary structure named the β-layer. β-Layers are found in natural coiled coils, forming regular fibers with alternating α- and β-structure, a protein fold that has not been described so far. This finding shows that a substantially novel backbone structure is possible within the allowed regions of the Ramachandran space with only minor mutations to a known fold.
Hemoglobin (Hb) is a tetrameric allosteric protein responsible for tissue oxygen delivery and exhibits adaptive adjustments in tissue oxygen unloading based on metabolic requirements of vertebrates. These adaptations are attributed to macroscopic parameters such as effective affinity (p50) and cooperativity (nH) of oxygen binding by Hb. Although it is widely believed that Hb oxygen affinity (p50) is an adaptive trait, a study suggests that cooperativity (nH) also plays a crucial role in optimizing tissue oxygen delivery. The study found that mammalian Hb cooperativity values reside on a ridge of maximum cooperativity along the biophysical Hill landscape, allowing for both gross- and fine-tuning of tissue oxygen unloading to meet the distinct metabolic requirements of mammalian tissues for oxygen. The findings reveal the mechanism underlying body size-related adaptation of mammalian Hb, with implications for understanding the evolutionary origins of properties seen in modern-day proteins. The study highlights the complexity of the relationship between protein sequence and organismal/population fitness and the challenges in elucidating the molecular properties of a protein with adaptive value. Hb is an excellent model protein to study molecular adaptation in vertebrates, with mutation and selection separated by several levels of biological organization, making it difficult to understand the complex relationships between protein sequence and organismal/population fitness. The study suggests that both p50 and nH of Hb should reflect physiological optimization of the tradeoff between O2 loading in the lungs and O2 unloading in tissues, optimizing tissue oxygen delivery. The principles underlying the biophysical Hill landscape-mapping strategy offer mechanistic-level understanding of how physiological and evolutionary variations operate to shape the molecular property of a protein.
The Brazilian cave insect Neotrogla has a functional switching valve in its female genitalia, which is composed of two plate-like sclerites, a closure element, and in-and-outflow canals. This valve complex, along with the female's penis-like intromittent organ, allows for long copulation times and multiple seminal injections, enabling females to compete for nutritious semen in their nutrient-poor cave habitats. The evolution of this switching valve may have been a prerequisite for the reversal of the intromittent organ in Neotrogla. This morphological novelty is an example of how man-made engineering solutions have evolved in insects, as seen in hinges, on-off valves, backflow valves, coiling mechanisms, and catapult-like mechanisms. The design and construction of such mechanisms on a micrometer scale are challenging tasks in engineering, making studies of micron-scale biological structures valuable for illuminating construction principles that could be applied to technical solutions in engineering.
The study used super-resolution microscopy to examine the effect of fluorophore size and photostability on AMPA receptor (AMPAR) trafficking in and outside of post-synaptic densities (PSDs) in rat neurons. Organic fluorescent dyes, small quantum dots (sQDs), and big quantum dots (bQDs) were used to label AMPARs. Results showed that over 90% of AMPARs labeled with organic fluorescent dyes or sQDs were diffusing in confined nanodomains in PSDs, which were stable for 15 minutes or longer. Less than 10% of sQD-AMPARs were extrasynaptic and highly mobile, while 90-95% of bQD-AMPARs were extrasynaptic. Contrary to previous beliefs, AMPARs rapidly enter stable ‘nanodomains’ in PSDs with a lifetime of over 15 minutes and do not accumulate in extrasynaptic membranes. The study of synaptic plasticity, the leading cellular correlate of learning and memory, is crucial in cellular and molecular neuroscience. AMPARs and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) are the two major ionotropic glutamate receptors involved in synaptic strength. AMPARs traffic intracellularly from sites of synthesis and assembly to exocytosis sites near synapses. However, the mechanisms limiting AMPAR entry into and exit out of PSDs are unclear. Advanced fluorescence microscopic techniques have been used to study iGluR dynamics, including commercial or ‘big’ quantum dots (bQDs) and small (<5 nm) fluorescent probes. However, there are contradictory results regarding whether AMPARs or other neurotransmitter receptors are synaptic or extrasynaptic due to four factors: the nanometer scale of synapses, two-dimensional imaging, recombinantly tagged imaging probes, and probe photostability. The study used 3-dimensional super-resolution microscopy on cell-surface AMPARs labeled with different-sized fluorescent probes and found that >90% of AMPARs labeled with organic fluorescent dyes or sQDs were found in PSDs, while less than 10% were highly mobile and extrasynaptic. However, when AMPARs were labeled with bQDs, virtually all AMPARs were highly mobile and extrasynaptic. The study concluded that mobile AMPARs enter PSDs and do not accumulate in extrasynaptic membranes as previously observed. The data further suggest that AMPAR entry is not regulated by a limited number of ‘slots’ where AMPARs are bound after entry into PSDs. Instead, AMPARs are found to diffuse within surprisingly stable ‘nanodomains’ confining AMPARs to sites within PSDs that may regulate access to presynaptic glutamate release.
In Drosophila, the Domino (Dom) chromatin regulator complex is responsible for transcriptional regulation through histone acetylation and deposition of H2A.Z variant. Two isoforms of the Domino ATPase, DOM-A and DOM-B, specify two distinct multi-subunit complexes, DOM-A.C and DOM-B.C. DOM-B.C incorporates H2A.V genome-wide in an ATP-dependent manner, similar to the yeast SWR1 complex. DOM-A.C functions as an ATP-independent histone acetyltransferase complex, targeting lysine 12 of histone H4, similar to the yeast NuA4. This diversity in Drosophila is generated by alternative splicing of a single gene, while in yeast and humans, it originates from gene duplication and paralog specification. Nucleosomes, the fundamental units of chromatin, are organized in polymeric fibers of variable compactness and their dynamic properties required for gene regulation are implemented by several broad principles, including ATP-dependent nucleosome remodeling, chemical modifications of histones, and histone variants. The H2A variant H2A.Z is primarily found at active promoters and enhancers, where it is thought to be important for transcription initiation and early elongation. H2A.Z is introduced into chromatin by the SWR1 complex, a multi-subunit ATP-dependent chromatin remodeler, in yeast, humans, and Drosophila.
The paper reveals how membrane organization influences the diffusion and trafficking of Ras, specifically the KRasG12D mutant, in U2OS cells using spt-PALM and detailed trajectory analysis. The study found that KRasG12D exhibits an immobile state in ~70 nm domains, embedded in a larger domain of ~200 nm that confers intermediate mobility, while the rest of the membrane supports fast diffusion. KRasG12D is continuously removed from the membrane and replenished, independent of protein expression levels. These findings provide new insights into the spatial regulation of Ras signaling and the role of membrane organization in shaping signaling molecule behavior. Previous studies have suggested that Ras signaling involves the formation of multimers in a membrane-dependent manner, with partitioning into nanoscopic membrane domains and interactions with scaffold proteins or structures constituting critical steps. However, these studies often lack spatiotemporal dynamics information. Recent advances in SPT and data analysis strategies have enabled the acquisition of thousands of diffusion trajectories and detailed diffusion model construction, overcoming the limitations of traditional SPT. The study combines spt-PALM with trajectory analysis to reveal previously unknown aspects of Ras diffusion on the cell membrane. Leveraging the large number of trajectories, the authors mapped diffusion states to distinctive membrane domains, estimated domain size and lifetime, and defined spatial relationships. They discovered that KRasG12D diffusion follows a non-equilibrium steady state model with net mass flow from the fast state to the immobile state, potentially coupled to endocytic trafficking and membrane recycling. These findings propose a new model for the membrane dynamics of KRasG12D, with nested membrane nanodomains dictating diffusion and trafficking, and implications for Ras multimer formation and signaling.
The analysis presented here evaluates recent claims regarding the effects of magnetic fields on biological molecules and cells. These claims include the identification of a protein complex acting like a compass needle for magnetic orientation in animals (Qin et al., 2016), and the magnetic control of membrane conductance by attaching ferritin to an ion channel protein and tugging or heating it with a magnetic field (Stanley et al., 2015; Wheeler et al., 2016). However, these reports contradict basic laws of physics, with discrepancies of 5 to 10 log units. The paramagnetic nature of protein complexes also limits their utility for engineering magnetically sensitive cells.The interaction between magnetic fields and biological matter is generally weak, making it challenging for organisms to sense magnetic fields for navigation purposes. Magnetosensation in animals is not well understood, and hypotheses include the involvement of magnetite mechanisms or the radical pair mechanism. A recent article by Qin et al. (2016) proposes a new hypothesis, suggesting a single macromolecule as a magnetic receptor protein. However, this proposal faces challenges, as the claimed intrinsic magnetic moment and alignment with the Earth's magnetic field are implausible.In the context of magnetogenetics, Wheeler et al. (2016) aim to couple magnetic fields to ionic current across the cell membrane using a single-component protein consisting of a putative mechano-sensitive cation channel (TRPV4) fused to two subunits of ferritin. The authors claim that neural activity can be modulated by static magnetic fields; however, the underlying biophysical mechanism remains unclear. The iron core of ferritin is too small to sustain a permanent dipole moment, and its direction of spin fluctuates thermally. External magnetic fields bias these fluctuations, creating a magnetic moment, but this mechanism may not be suitable for engineering purposes.Stanley et al. (2015) propose the use of high-frequency magnetic fields to heat ferritin particles, activating ion channels and allowing cations to flow into the cell. However, magnetic heating of nanoparticles, including ferritin, is challenging due to their small size and low magnetic susceptibility. The efficiency of heating magnetic nanoparticles depends strongly on the particle size, and plummets steeply below 10 nm. Ferritin particles, with an iron core of 5-6 nm in diameter, are not considered useful for magnetic hyperthermia.In summary, the claims regarding the effects of magnetic fields on biological molecules and cells face significant challenges and require further investigation. Existing biophysical mechanisms proposed by recent studies are implausible or inefficient, and a more profound understanding of the interaction between magnetic fields and biological matter is necessary for the development of magnetogenetics and magnetosensation research.
Individuals with congenital amusia, a condition characterized by impaired perception and memory for pitch, have reduced functional connectivity between left prefrontal language-related regions and right hemisphere pitch-related regions during speech perception tasks. This reduction in connectivity reflects their tendency to downweight pitch cues and rely on other dimensions such as duration. The study found that connectivity differences between these regions were not present during a control task, indicating a compensatory mechanism. While the dominant view of amusia’s neural basis is that connectivity between right inferior frontal cortex and right auditory cortex is impaired, this study suggests that sites in left frontal cortex also show large decreases in connectivity in amusia, particularly with right hemisphere auditory areas. The results are consistent with an account that right hemisphere auditory areas are not only abnormally connected to right frontal areas but are less integrated with frontal left hemisphere regions when processing speech and language. The null results for group differences in activation during speech processing support the proposal that amusia is a disorder of pitch awareness rather than one of low-level pitch processing, with differences in structural connectivity as one possible foundation of this impaired pitch awareness.
NCOA4 is a selective cargo receptor that mediates the autophagic turnover of ferritin, a process critical for regulating intracellular iron bioavailability. However, the control of ferritinophagy flux and the roles of NCOA4 in iron-dependent processes are not well understood. The NCOA4-FTH1 interaction is required for the delivery of ferritin to lysosomes via autophagosomes, and NCOA4 abundance is regulated by autophagy and the ubiquitin proteasome system. Ubiquitin-dependent NCOA4 turnover is promoted by excess iron and involves an iron-dependent interaction between NCOA4 and the HERC2 ubiquitin ligase. NCOA4 plays an essential role in erythroid differentiation, and intracellular iron levels modulate NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy in cells and in an iron-dependent physiological setting. Ferritin, composed of FTH1 and FTL subunits, stores up to 4500 iron atoms and is degraded in the lysosome through autophagy, a process called ferritinophagy. NCOA4 is the selective autophagy receptor that targets ferritin to the autophagosome, and NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy is important for maintaining cellular iron homeostasis. NCOA4 levels appear to control flux through the ferritinophagy pathway, and HERC2, an NCOA4-interacting protein, is involved in the basal turnover of FBXL5, a key iron-sensing protein. NCOA4 is important for erythropoiesis, a process highly dependent on iron availability, and is expressed at sites of erythropoiesis during zebrafish development and at the orthochromatic erythroblast stage of erythroid differentiation in humans. The mechanisms controlling NCOA4 abundance and the precise role that HERC2, iron, and the ubiquitin system play in regulating NCOA4 and its autophagic turnover during ferritinophagy remain unexplored.
ISG15 is an interferon-stimulated, linear di-ubiquitin-like protein with anti-viral activity, but its role during bacterial infection is less understood. A study found that ISG15 expression in nonphagocytic cells is significantly increased upon Listeria infection, independently of type I interferon and dependent on the cytosolic surveillance pathway (CSP) that senses bacterial DNA and signals through STING, TBK1, IRF3, and IRF7. ISG15 expression restricts Listeria infection both in vitro and in vivo. Infection or overexpression of ISG15 leads to ISGylation of ER and Golgi proteins, correlating with increased secretion of cytokines known to counteract infection, revealing a previously uncharacterized ISG15-dependent restriction of Listeria infection and reinforcing the view that ISG15 is a key component of the innate immune response. Listeria monocytogenes is a food-borne pathogen that can cause enteric infections and, in immunocompromised individuals, can cross the blood-brain barrier and in pregnant women the feto-placental barrier, potentially leading to cases of meningitis and septicemia. Listeria must evade macrophage killing, enter and replicate in epithelial cells, and spread from cell to cell to be fully virulent. Listeria induces a rapid and sterilizing CD8+ T cell-mediated adaptive immune response, and a more recent area of investigation has been the innate immune response to the pathogen. Listeria activates the type III interferon pathway, a pathway discovered much later than type I interferon, and the type III interferon receptor has a more limited tissue expression pattern than the receptor for type I interferon but activates a signaling pathway similar to that of the type I interferon receptor. The role of ISG15 during bacterial infection remains elusive, but it can conjugate to over 300 cellular proteins and can also function as a cytokine to induce interferon-γ production in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. ISG15 seems to be unique among ubls, as it can both modify specific target proteins and non-specifically modify proteins cotranslationally. ISG15 plays an important role in the innate immune response to viruses and is strongly induced by type I interferon, which is produced during bacterial infection. A study found that ISG15 is dramatically induced upon Listeria infection in a type I interferon-independent manner and that ISGylation acts as a means of host defense against invading bacteria. ISG15 counteracts Listeria infection both in vitro and in vivo, and ISG15 induction depends on the CSP, which senses bacterial DNA and signals through STING, TBK1, IRF3, and IRF7. ISG15 induction restricts Listeria infection by increasing the secretion of cytokines known to control infection. In summary, ISG15 is an important component of the innate immune response to Listeria infection, and ISG15 induction restricts Listeria infection by increasing the secretion of cytokines known to control infection.
The fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, is capable of exhibiting robust odor-guided behaviors in an odor gradient field, and this ability is dependent on the temporal processing of olfactory stimuli in early olfactory circuits. Research has shown that subjecting flies to precisely defined odor concentration waveforms and examining spike patterns of olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) and projection neurons (PNs) reveals a significant temporal transformation between OSN and PN spike patterns. This transformation manifests as the PN output strongly signaling the OSN spike rate and its rate of change. A two-dimensional model using the OSN spike rate and its rate of change as inputs closely predicts the PN output. This transformation enables animals to reliably respond to the onsets of odor concentrations by primarily signaling the acceleration and rate of change of dynamic odor stimuli to higher brain centers. Natural odor distribution is intermittent and dynamic, and animals have evolved the ability to detect and respond to temporal variation of odor stimuli. Drosophila larvae with only a single functional OSN are capable of moving toward a droplet of an attractive odor by actively orienting themselves, and adult fruit flies exhibit robust odor-guided behaviors such as turning upwind in flight upon contact with an attractive odor plume and staying within a specific odor zone. To enable such odor-guided tasks, it is essential for any olfactory system to process time-varying features of olfactory stimuli and supply behaviorally relevant information to higher brain centers. Recent studies have investigated how dynamic olfactory stimuli are processed in insect early olfactory systems and observed significant temporal processing of odor signals. However, these studies employed a simple odor delivery system that generated step-pulse-like odor stimuli without directly monitoring the actual odor concentration levels. A more rigorous understanding of sensory processing requires precisely measuring the input stimuli and systematically exploring the input space. Natural odor plumes are encountered in various spatiotemporal patterns, and their dynamics and statistics can influence the neural encoding mechanism. In Drosophila, OSNs expressing the same receptors connect with PNs in one of roughly 50 spherical compartments, termed olfactory glomeruli, which constitute a deutocerebral neuropil called the antennal lobe. PNs subsequently relay olfactory information to higher brain centers such as the mushroom body and the lateral horn. Two recent studies have reported that Drosophila OSNs encode not only the odor concentration but also its rate of change as a function of time. Building on this recent advance, researchers investigated how PNs further contribute to creating internal representations of dynamic olfactory environments by testing OSNs and PNs with short plume-like odor stimuli in a variety of settings and analyzing the correlation structure of input/output signals in the odor-OSN-PN pathway. They constructed a two-dimensional (2D) linear–nonlinear (LN) model of the OSN-to-PN transformation by inducing an ensemble of triangle-shaped OSN spike rates via a systematic design of olfactory stimuli.
