Fleas can transmit Yersinia pestis, the bacterium that causes plague, through two mechanisms: early-phase transmission (EPT) and biofilm-dependent transmission (BDT). EPT occurs when fleas regurgitate Y. pestis from a partially obstructed foregut during their next feeding attempt within 4 days of becoming infected, while BDT typically ensues at least 5-7 days after infection and involves the interference or blockage of normal blood feeding due to a Y. pestis biofilm in the proventriculus. A study examining the mechanism of EPT and the effect of host blood on it found that fleas fed bacteremic rat or guinea pig blood had a higher likelihood of exhibiting post-infection esophageal reflux (PIER), a phenomenon where a portion of the infected blood meal is refluxed into the esophagus within 24 hours of feeding. This was observed in 10-28% of fleas fed rat or guinea pig blood, but rarely in those fed mouse or gerbil blood. PIER correlated with the accumulation of Y. pestis, red blood cell stroma, and oxyhemoglobin crystals in the proventriculus, and increased the likelihood of fleas appearing partially blocked and transmitting more CFUs of Y. pestis. Overall, the study suggests that the insolubility of the hemoglobin of rats and Sciurids and the slower digestion of their blood promotes regurgitative transmission, which may be one reason why these rodents are particularly prominent in plague ecology.
Endogenous retroviruses (ERVs) are remnants of ancient retroviral infections of the host germline, passed vertically from generation to generation. They have been integrating into the host genome for millions of years in various host species, including sheep. In sheep, two exogenous oncogenic retroviruses, Jaagsiekte sheep retrovirus and Enzootic nasal tumor virus, coexist with highly related and biologically active endogenous retroviruses, enJSRVs. These enJSRVs have been integrating into the host genome for the last 5-7 million years and have played a role in the coevolution of endogenous and exogenous retroviruses and their hosts. Two enJSRV proviruses, enJS56A1 and enJSRV-20, have acquired a defective Gag polyprotein resulting in a transdominant phenotype that blocks late replication steps of related exogenous retroviruses. These transdominant proviruses became fixed in the host genome before or around sheep domestication, which occurred around 9,000 years ago. A provirus escaping the transdominant enJSRVs has emerged very recently, within the last 200 years. This study suggests that endogenization and selection of ERVs acting as restriction factors is a mechanism used by the host to fight retroviral infections.
The Drosophila embryonic gonad is formed from two cell types, Primordial Germ Cells (PGCs) and Somatic Gonadal Precursor cells (SGPs). PGCs form at the posterior of blastoderm stage embryos and migrate to reach the SGPs by traversing the midgut wall and moving through the mesoderm. A combination of repulsive cues and attractive signals, including the hedgehog (hh) pathway, guide PGC migration. The hh pathway gene shifted (shf) is expressed in the gonadal mesoderm and is required for PGC migration. The hmgcr-dependent isoprenoid biosynthetic pathway plays a pivotal role in generating the PGC attractant, and production of this attractant depends upon shf and the hh pathway gene gγ1. Ectopic expression of hmgcr promotes the release/transmission of the Hh ligand from cells into and through the underlying mesodermal cell layer, where Hh can contact migrating PGCs. Hh signaling is crucial in patterning in a wide range of multicellular eukaryotes and is implicated in cell migration, axonal guidance, and shaping polarized cellular extensions. Long distance hh signaling is mediated by an unusual multistep pathway in which Hh-Np is transmitted from the basolateral membranes of the sending cells to the basolateral membrane of the hh expressing cells. Proteins implicated in this process include HMGCoA reductase (hmgcr), geranylgeranyl diphosphate synthetase (qm), and G protein γ subunit 1 (Gγ1), which help mediate the intracellular trafficking of membrane vesicles and cargo. Many of these factors also function in the signaling pathway that directs PGC migration to the SGPs during mid-embryogenesis. The Shf protein, which is the Drosophila ortholog of the vertebrate Wnt Inhibitory Factor-1 (WIF-1), facilitates the long distance transmission of Hh-Np after it has been released from the basolateral membranes of signaling cells. In shf mutants, the basolateral accumulation and subsequent spreading of Hh-Np is disrupted, resulting in a reduction in the expression of hh targets. Guerrero and colleagues found that the defects in hh signaling in the wings of shf mutants can be suppressed by overexpression of hmgcr. The possibility is that the functional connection to shf seen in the wing could also be of significance in PGC migration.
In a study, the researchers presented a model of adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus, focusing on a simplified memory model where the network had to encode and decode memory patterns despite changing input statistics. They found that additive neurogenesis, where the network grows over time, was a more effective adaptation strategy compared to neuronal turnover and conventional synaptic plasticity. Here, they extend the model to include realistic, spatially driven input firing patterns in the form of grid cells in the entorhinal cortex. They compare network performance across a sequence of spatial environments using three distinct adaptation strategies: conventional synaptic plasticity, neuronal turnover, and additive neurogenesis. They find that a more biologically plausible neurogenesis rule that incorporates cell death and enhanced plasticity of new granule cells has an overall performance significantly better than any one of the three individual strategies operating alone. This adaptation rule can be tailored to maximize performance of the network when operating as either a short- or long-term memory store. The researchers also examine the time course of adult neurogenesis over the lifetime of an animal raised under different hypothetical rearing conditions and show that place cells can emerge and refine in a realistic manner in their model as a direct result of the sparsification performed by the dentate gyrus layer. Adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus and olfactory bulb has distinct differences, with neurogenesis in the olfactory bulb being part of a turnover of cells, while neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus is an additive process where new units are added to an expanding network. Thousands of new granule cells are produced each day in the dentate gyrus of young adult animals, a number that declines sharply as the animal ages. Surviving granule cells have been shown to persist for at least a year. Computational models have made great progress in understanding the functional relevance of adult-born neurons, with models of hippocampal networks that include adult neurogenesis examining neurogenesis as either part of a neuronal turnover or as part of an additive process. These studies show that incorporating neurogenesis into a network can be advantageous in a number of learning tasks. In this study, the researchers found that additive neurogenesis allowed the network to adapt to changes in input statistics while preserving the retrieval properties of the network and eliminating entirely the problem of interference. They concluded that there are strong theoretical arguments as to why additive neurogenesis should be observed in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus as it endows the network with the ability to adapt in a way that is not possible with conventional plasticity or neuronal turnover.
The transcriptional regulation of pluripotent cells, including embryonic stem (ES) cells and primordial germ cells (PGCs), is crucial for understanding cell differentiation and reprogramming. Researchers analyzed the transcriptional profiles of mouse ES cells and PGCs, identifying genes upregulated in pluripotent cells both in vitro and in vivo. These genes are enriched for roles in transcription, chromatin remodeling, cell cycle, and DNA repair. To systematically predict short DNA motifs that regulate gene expression, the team developed a novel computational algorithm, CompMoby, which combines analyses of sequences both aligned and non-aligned between different genomes with a probabilistic segmentation model. CompMoby was used to identify conserved overrepresented motifs in genes upregulated in pluripotent cells, showing sequence-specific activity in undifferentiated mouse ES and embryonic germ cells and acting as enhancers in the context of an endogenous promoter. The activity of these motifs is conserved in human ES cells. The transcription factor NF-Y specifically binds to one of the motifs, is differentially expressed during ES cell differentiation, and is required for ES cell proliferation. This study provides novel insights into the transcriptional regulatory networks of pluripotent cells and demonstrates a systematic approach for understanding transcriptional networks in mammalian species.
The current model of HCV production involves the assembly of virions on lipid droplets, envelopment at the ER in association with components of VLDL synthesis, and egress via the secretory pathway. However, the cellular requirements and mechanisms of HCV secretion are incompletely understood. An RNAi analysis of host factors for infectious HCV secretion, combined with live cell imaging of HCV core trafficking, was used to gain a detailed understanding of HCV egress. The study identified multiple components of the secretory pathway, including ER to Golgi trafficking, lipid and protein kinases that regulate budding from the trans-Golgi network, VAMP1 vesicles and adaptor proteins, and the recycling endosome. The results support a model wherein HCV is infectious upon envelopment at the ER and exits the cell via the secretory pathway. Infectious HCV with a tetracysteine (TC) tag insertion in core was constructed to monitor the dynamics of HCV core trafficking in association with its cellular cofactors. The majority of dynamic core traffics in association with apolipoprotein E (ApoE) and VAMP1 vesicles. This study identifies many new host cofactors of HCV egress, while presenting dynamic studies of HCV core trafficking in infected cells. HCV is a positive-strand RNA virus with a ∼9600bp genome that encodes three structural proteins (core and the glycoproteins E1 and E2) and seven non-structural (NS) proteins. The discovery of HCV strains that are infectious in cell culture has enhanced the appreciation of the functions of these proteins in all stages of the viral life cycle. Infection of hepatocytes in cell culture requires at least four potential receptor molecules and numerous entry cofactors. Following endosomal acidification, genomic RNA is released into the cytoplasm where initial translation and replication occur. Replication is associated with membranous structures derived from the endoplasmic reticulum. Following replication, genomic RNAs in complex with viral and possibly cellular proteins are thought to transit to lipid droplets, where core protein localizes and virion assembly occurs. The egress of flaviviruses through the secretory pathway is well documented and may be similar to the mechanism by which HCV is secreted. However, HCV is distinct from the flaviviruses in that HCV particles are infectious upon envelopment and appear to be secreted from the cell in association with distinct lipid and apolipoprotein associations. HCV particles circulating in the blood of infected patients are rich in triglycerides, apolipoprotein B, and apolipoprotein E. The VLDL synthesis pathway has been implicated in infectious HCV secretion. Small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) or inhibitors that target components of VLDL synthesis inhibit infectious HCV secretion. This study is a continuation of two previous RNAi studies in which membrane trafficking pathways were interrogated for their roles in HCV entry and replication. The primary screen was performed by electroporating four individual siRNAs per gene into Huh-7.5 cells and then allowing silencing for 48 or 72 hours before infection with HCV. Viral supernatants were collected at two days post infection and viral titers were quantified. The siRNAs that inhibited extracellular infectious HCV production by more than 1 standard deviation of siIRR treated cells (>65% inhibition) were classified as “hits” and were characterized in secondary assays. To limit the possibility of siRNA off-target effects, individual siRNAs were then tested. Genes that were required for infectious HCV production, but not HCVpp entry or replicon replication, were further tested for a role in infectious HCV secretion. The study identified multiple components of the secretory pathway, from ER to Golgi trafficking to Golgi structure and function, cargo sorting and vesicle budding from TGN, regulators of TGN to plasma membrane trafficking, and the v-snare, VAMP1. This suggests that HCV virions egress through the secretory pathway from the TGN to recycling endosomes to the plasma membrane. A role for ER to Golgi trafficking genes in the egress of infectious HCV is supported by previous data showing that brefeldin A treatment of infected cells accumulates intracellular infectious HCV.
This study uses molecular dynamics simulations to analyze the conformational behavior of two synthetic peptides, LKKLLKLLKKLLKL (LK) and EAALAEALAEALAE (EALA), which have built-in secondary amphiphilicity and a tendency to form alpha-helices. The study shows that these peptides adopt multiple conformations and secondary structure elements with short lifetimes in bulk water and are susceptible to environmental conditions such as pH, salts, or the presence of interfaces. The study also finds that the peptides' aggregation behavior is affected by the presence or absence of an interface and its surface charge and hydrophobicity. The partitioning, folding, and aggregation properties of soluble peptides and small proteins at hydrophobic/hydrophilic interfaces play a crucial role in biomedically important processes, such as the formation of amyloid fibrils responsible for many human disorders, including severe neurodegenerative diseases. The amphiphilic character of the involved amyloidogenic proteins and peptides is responsible for their aggregation propensity and their strong interface activity, including interaction with biomembrane surfaces, membrane penetrating, membrane rupturing, and pore-forming mechanisms. Cell penetrating peptides (CPP) have gained importance as a tool for the targeted delivery of non-permeable therapeutics. The folding and aggregation equilibria of these systems are usually complex and very sensitive to external factors. Atomistic molecular dynamics simulations can shed light on the disordered, half-folded, and highly-dynamic states at low concentration and provide a mechanistic understanding of intrinsically disordered states and the driving forces that trigger folding and aggregation. The study uses classical atomistic molecular dynamics simulations to investigate the environment-dependent folding equilibrium of the two model peptide systems, with a special focus on the influence of soft hydrophobic interfaces and oligomer formation on this equilibrium. The two chosen systems, a cationic model peptide based on LK repeats and EALA, a pH-switchable anionic peptide based on the GALA system, are both designed to display secondary amphiphilicity in the alpha-helical conformation. Both systems are reported to have an affinity to biomembranes and to oligomerize in solution. The study aims to analyze the contribution of different interactions and driving forces to the coupled equilibria of folding, aggregation, and partitioning at hydrophobic/hydrophilic interfaces and to characterize typical microscopic intermediates and pathways.
In this study, a virulent strain of Streptococcus pneumoniae was analyzed in an infant mouse model to understand the bacterial pathogenesis and transmission, both with and without influenza A (IAV) co-infection. The study aimed to identify vulnerable points in the multiple steps of pneumococcal pathogenesis and analyzed population bottlenecks during colonization, disease, and transmission. The findings revealed that in the setting of IAV co-infection, the organism must pass through single-cell bottlenecks during bloodstream invasion from the nasopharynx within the host and in transmission between hosts. These bottlenecks were not associated with genetic adaptation by the pathogen. The bottleneck in transmission occurred between bacterial exit from one host and establishment in another, explaining why the number of shed organisms in secretions is critical to overcoming it. These observations demonstrate how viral infection and the TLR-dependent innate immune responses it stimulates and that are required to control it, drive bacterial contagion. The study highlights the importance of understanding the mechanisms responsible for protection and the potential for impacting pneumococcal disease at discrete steps in its pathogenesis.
HIV spreads both by cell-free and cell-cell transmission, but the relative importance of cell-cell transmission in natural infection is unclear. Cell-cell transmission may be a dominant mode of virus dissemination in infected individuals, and it may foster infection of target cells with multiple virions and facilitate recombination and escape adaptations. However, the relative contribution of cell-cell and cell-free virus transmission in acquisition of HIV infection and viral dissemination during human infection remains undefined. This gap in knowledge poses a challenge for neutralizing antibody based HIV vaccine and entry inhibitor design. Neutralizing antibodies recognize epitopes on the envelope glycoproteins gp120 and gp41 and neutralize HIV by blocking virion attachment to host cell receptors or by inhibiting membrane fusion. However, it remains unclear to what extent the relatively enclosed environment of the viral synapse is able to protect the virus from humoral immunity. In vitro, HIV transmission from infected to non-infected cells occurs via formation of virological synapses and transient cell-cell contacts, and this mode of transmission has been proven to be more efficient and rapid than infection by cell-free viruses. In this study, the authors used specifically tailored experimental strategies to unambiguously discriminate between cell-free and cell-cell transmission and found that the activity of neutralizing monoclonal antibodies and entry inhibitors during cell-cell transmission varies depending on their mode of action. CD4bs directed inhibitors, including the potent neutralizing mAb VRC01, dramatically lose potency during cell-cell transmission, while gp41 directed agents remain active. This implies that CD4bs mAbs act preferentially through blocking free virus transmission, while still allowing HIV to spread through cell-cell contacts. This finding provides a plausible explanation for how HIV maintains infectivity and rapidly escapes potent and broadly active CD4bs directed antibody responses in vivo.
A statistical framework for evaluating the performance of risk prediction models for complex diseases has been developed, based on the liability threshold model. This framework allows for the estimation of various prediction indices, such as the area under the ROC curve (AUC), mean risk difference, net reclassification improvement, and the proportion of cases explained by a specific percentile of the population at the highest risk. These indices can be used to visualize the performance of risk models through graphs such as the ROC curve, density of risks, and predictiveness curve. The framework was applied to nine complex diseases, evaluating the predictive power of genetic tests based on known susceptibility variants. While genome-wide association studies have uncovered many common genetic variants underlying complex diseases, the effect size of a single genetic marker is typically modest and multiple susceptibility variants may be required for useful risk prediction. The use of AUC and other measures in conjunction can provide a more comprehensive understanding of the performance of risk prediction models.
The Saccharomyces cerevisiae RAD3 gene is the homolog of human XPD, an essential gene that encodes a DNA helicase of the TFIIH complex involved in both nucleotide excision repair (NER) and transcription. Some mutant alleles of RAD3, such as rad3-101 and rad3-102, have partial defects in DNA repair and a strong hyper-recombination (hyper-Rec) phenotype. The hyper-Rec phenotype associated with rad3-101 and rad3-102 is due to persistent single-stranded DNA gaps that are converted to recombinogenic double-strand breaks (DSBs) by replication. Both rad3-101 and rad3-102 elevate the frequency of reciprocal crossovers about 100-fold, with three-quarters of these crossovers reflecting DSBs formed at the same positions in both sister chromatids (double sister-chromatid breaks, DSCBs) and the remainder reflecting DSBs formed in single chromatids (single chromatid breaks, SCBs). The ratio of DSCBs to SCBs is similar to that observed for spontaneous recombination events in wild-type cells. Mapping of 216 unselected genomic alterations throughout the genome, including crossovers, gene conversions, deletions, and duplications, showed a significant association between the location of these recombination events and regions with elevated gamma-H2AX. A hotspot for deletions and duplications was found at the IMA2 and HXT11 genes near the left end of chromosome XV. A comparison of these data with a previous analysis of spontaneous mitotic recombination events suggests that a sub-set of spontaneous events in wild-type cells may be initiated by incomplete NER reactions, and that DSCBs, which cannot be repaired by sister-chromatid recombination, are a major source of mitotic recombination between homologous chromosomes.
The proposed budget cut of $26.7 million in the CDC vector-borne diseases program has the potential to halt surveillance and research activities for mosquito-borne diseases such as dengue and West Nile virus, leaving the country unprepared for new and existing diseases. A mathematical model was used to generate hypothetical scenarios of delayed responses to a dengue introduction in the City of Cairns, Queensland, Australia. The results showed that halting mosquito surveillance could increase the management costs of epidemics by up to an order of magnitude in comparison to a strategy with sustained surveillance and early case detection. The study emphasizes the need for improved and sustainable systems for vector-borne disease surveillance and provides a science-based justification for the re-assessment of the current proposal to slash the budget of the CDC vector-borne diseases program. Delayed responses to dengue outbreaks can result in an exponential increase in both the number of human cases and health costs. The emergence of West Nile virus in New York City in 1999 is an example of the consequences of a delayed response, with the infection progressing throughout the US and generating over 28,000 human cases and 1,130 fatalities. The CDC-supported vector surveillance network has been crucial in detecting and containing the recent emergence of dengue in mainland US. Without adequate funding for vector-borne disease research and surveillance, detection of transmission events or novel viral introductions would be significantly delayed, turning CDC into a reactive rather than preventive health service. The total costs of preparedness through surveillance are far lower than the ones needed to respond to the introduction of vector-borne pathogens, highlighting the need for more, rather than less, funding for vector-borne disease surveillance.
The regulation of transcription is significantly influenced by insulator or enhancer-blocking elements, which prevent inappropriate enhancer-promoter interactions. CTCF, a zinc-finger protein, has been extensively studied in vertebrates as an enhancer-blocking factor, but its role in Drosophila has only recently been discovered. Research has identified a single endogenous binding location for CTCF in the Drosophila genome, the Fab-8 insulator in the Abdominal-B locus in the Bithorax complex (BX-C). Chromatin immunopurification coupled with genomic microarray analysis has been used to identify CTCF binding sites within representative regions of the Drosophila genome. This analysis revealed that CTCF binds directly to all known or predicted insulators in the BX-C, suggesting a common CTCF-dependent mechanism for their functioning. The comparison of CTCF sites with characterized Polycomb target sites and histone modification supports the domain model of BX-C regulation. CTCF plays a crucial role in the regulation of transcription by preventing inappropriate enhancer-promoter communication and forming chromatin loops that partition the genome into separate regulatory domains.
Ebolaviruses and marburgviruses are filoviruses, a family of enveloped, nonsegmented negative-sense (NNS) RNA viruses that cause lethal hemorrhagic fever and are potential bioterrorism agents. Their genome is 18,959 nucleotides long and contains seven transcriptional units that direct synthesis of at least nine distinct primary translation products. The Zaire ebolavirus (EBOV) L gene, which encodes the catalytic subunit of the polymerase complex, has a 5'-UTR that regulates cap-dependent translation and contains upstream AUGs (uAUGs) that suppress translation of the primary ORF (pORF). Mutating the L uAUG to UCG attenuated virus growth, impaired viral RNA synthesis, and increased sensitivity to stress inducers. These data suggest that the L uORF in EBOV mRNA regulates polymerase expression in response to the status of the cellular innate immune response and is required for optimal virus replication. EBOV mRNAs are predominately translated by a cap-dependent mechanism, and the EBOV 5'-UTRs do not function as IRESes. However, the L 5'-UTR dramatically suppresses GFP expression in both 293T cells and DCs compared to the β-actin 5'-UTR. The uAUG of the L 5'-UTR suppresses L expression in the context of its natural sequence. The L uAUG initiates translation and introduces a strong Kozak sequence surrounding the uAUG suppresses GFP translation, indicating that the parental uAUG is in a weak translation initiation context. Ablating the uAUG codon to UUG or UCG enhances GFP expression, providing further evidence that translation initiation at the uAUG regulates expression of the pORF. Relocating the uAUG only selectively represses GFP expression, indicating that the position of the L uAUG is important for its ability to regulate L translation.
This study analyzes the spread of rabies virus in furious and paralytic forms of canine rabies in the early stages of the disease. The research focused on the colonization of the cerebral hemispheres by the rabies virus, measuring viral antigen within neuronal cell bodies and viral RNA levels in cell processes. The study used a cohort of naturally infected non-vaccinated dogs, sacrificed shortly after developing illness, and compared the results between five furious and five paralytic dogs. The amount of rabies viral antigen within cell processes was quantitatively assessed by image analysis at different levels of the spinal cord, brain stem, and cerebrum.The results showed that the amount of rabies viral antigen in cell processes decreased in a rostral direction, generally following the pattern for the amount of rabies viral antigen in neuronal cell bodies and the percentage of involved cell bodies. However, there was a delay in cell process involvement following cell body involvement, consistent with replication occurring in the cell body region and subsequent transport out to cell processes. Greater amounts of antigen were seen in cell processes in dogs with the furious compared to paralytic form at all anatomic levels examined. This difference was even evident when comparing neurons with similar amounts of antigen, similar percentages of involved neurons, and anatomic levels that showed 100% positive neurons.The findings suggest that intracellular transport of the virus may be slower in the paralytic form, resulting in slower viral propagation. Possible mechanisms might involve host-specific differences in intracellular virus transport, which could be cytokine-mediated. Rabies is an almost uniformly fatal infectious disease of the central nervous system (CNS), caused by a neurotropic RNA virus in the family Rhabdoviridae, genus Lyssavirus. The worldwide number of rabies deaths was estimated to be 70,000 in 2011. Furious and paralytic clinical forms of rabies occur in both humans and dogs in a ratio of approximately 2:1.In summary, this study found that the amount of rabies viral antigen in cell processes was greater in dogs with the furious form compared to the paralytic form at all anatomic levels examined. The difference was evident even when comparing neurons with similar amounts of antigen, similar percentages of involved neurons, and anatomic levels that showed 100% positive neurons. The findings suggest that intracellular transport of the virus may be slower in the paralytic form, resulting in slower viral propagation. The study provides insights into the pathogenesis of the clinical diversity of rabies and the spread of the virus, which could potentially lead to better prevention and treatment strategies for this fatal disease.
Replication fork integrity is essential for genome stability and is monitored by checkpoint-mediated phosphorylation events. 14-3-3 proteins, which bind phosphorylated proteins, play an undefined role in DNA replication stress. Exonuclease 1 (Exo1) processes stalled replication forks in checkpoint-defective yeast cells, and 14-3-3 proteins interact with and regulate the phosphorylation status of Exo1 in both yeast and mammalian cells. Yeast 14-3-3–deficient cells fail to induce Mec1–dependent Exo1 hyperphosphorylation and accumulate Exo1–dependent ssDNA gaps at stalled forks, leading to persistent checkpoint activation and recovery defects. 14-3-3 proteins promote fork progression under limiting nucleotide concentrations. Exo1 is a nuclease that plays a role in several DNA repair pathways and is implicated in the processing of stalled replication forks. Exo1 activity is tightly controlled under DNA replication stress and DNA damage. 14-3-3 proteins are required for cell cycle restart, suppression of genomic instability, and viability upon DNA damage and DNA replication stress. They genetically and physically interact with the checkpoint protein Rad53 and the acetyltransferases and deacetylases Esa1 and Rpd3 upon replication perturbations. The exact mechanism of 14-3-3 action remains unknown, but they are crucial for regulating the function of proteins at stalled forks, including Exo1.
Sindbis virus (SINV) is a mosquito-borne virus that causes polyarthritis and rash in humans, known as Ockelbo disease in Sweden and Pogosta disease in Finland. Although SINV is typically found in tropical and subtropical countries, it also occurs in northern Europe, including Sweden and Finland, where it causes regularly reoccurring outbreaks every seven years. However, this seven-year cycle is based solely on reported human cases and lacks objective supporting evidence. To address this, a study was conducted to evaluate mosquito abundance and SINV prevalence in vector mosquitoes from an endemic area in central Sweden. The study found that the number of SINV strains recovered from mosquitoes significantly increased during the hypothesized 2002 outbreak year, with 15 strains recovered compared to 1 and 4 strains in the pre- and post-outbreak years, respectively. Furthermore, sequence analysis revealed local maintenance of four SINV clades in the River Dalälven floodplains over the years. These findings suggest that increased SINV prevalence in vector mosquitoes constitutes the most valuable outbreak marker for further scrutinizing the hypothesized seven-year cycle of SINV outbreaks and the mechanisms behind them.SINV is a zoonosis with birds as amplifying hosts and ornithophilic mosquitoes as vectors, and human cases are accidental dead-end hosts. In Sweden, SINV infection is distributed mainly in central Sweden and is associated with the main enzootic vector Culex torrentium and the main amplifying hosts, including redwing Turdus iliacus, fieldfare Turdus pilaris, and other passerines. The bridge-vector Aedes cinereus is also involved in tangential spread from viraemic birds to humans. SINV is ecologically similar to West Nile virus (WNV), and mosquito surveillance and virus detection in mosquitoes have been suggested as the most reliable and cost-effective method for early WNV outbreak detection.In northern Europe, the first cases of SINV infections were observed in 1967 in Sweden and reported as Ockelbo disease and in 1974 in Finland reported as Pogosta. A seven-year cycle of human SINV infections in northern Europe was suggested based on the apparent regular reoccurrence of outbreaks in the 1980s and 1990s. However, the reporting of SINV cases varies in relation to the authorities' demand for disease diagnosis and registration. Therefore, an objective marker of SINV activity is needed for further studies on the periodicity of outbreaks and for understanding the causes. From a public health perspective, a defined regularity in the occurrence of outbreaks would be a great advantage and allow the authorities to inform about the risk for mosquito-borne SINV infection with good timing, motivating people to use protective clothes and repellents to reduce the number of mosquito bites and thereby decrease the risk for infection and disease.
The post-genomic era has seen a rise in high-throughput technologies, including transcriptional profiling by microarrays to identify genes differentially expressed in various environmental conditions. This technology assumes that differentially expressed genes are functionally important in the environment where they are induced. However, the predictive value of differential expression on functional importance has not been tested. This study uses Caenorhabditis elegans as a model to investigate the interaction of native soil nematode taxa and soil bacteria. Transcriptional profiling identified candidate genes regulated in response to different bacteria associated with grassland nematodes or soils. Many of these regulated genes are predicted to affect metabolism and innate immunity, suggesting similar genes could influence nematode community dynamics in natural systems. Mutations inactivating 21 of the identified genes showed that most contribute to lifespan and/or fitness in a given bacterial environment.This research focuses on understanding the genetic mechanisms that underlie organismal responses to environmental change, particularly in light of human-induced changes. The study models the interaction of soil nematodes and their environment in the laboratory using an ecological genomic approach. Bacterial-feeding soil nematodes play key roles in ecosystems, including nutrient cycling, turnover of microbial biomass, and decomposition of soil organic matter. In grassland soils, bacterial-feeding nematode taxa are abundant and responsive to various disturbance regimes. The research aims to reveal the genetic basis of indirect effects on nematode community dynamics due to changes in food source caused by environmental disturbance.The researchers hypothesize that examining the genomic response of nematodes to different bacterial environments may reveal the genetic basis of observed nematode community responses. They are interested in the genetic responses of native ecologically relevant nematodes that do not have well-developed genetic and genomic resources and thus are not tractable for functional studies. The study identified several members of the Rhabditididae and Cephalobidae families whose relative abundance is altered in response to nutrient additions. A laboratory modeling approach was used, employing a related, genetically tractable, bacterial-feeding soil nematode to identify conserved candidate genes.The researchers exposed C. elegans to different grassland soil bacteria and used transcriptional profiling to identify differentially expressed genes. They determined the functional significance of a subset of the differentially expressed genes by measuring fitness and lifespan of mutant nematodes in the various bacterial environments. Results demonstrated that the functions of many of the genes specifically induced in response to different bacteria contribute to nematode fitness and lifespan in those bacterial environments. For specific genes, the extent of differential gene expression between bacterial environments was correlated with the degree of the effect of the loss of gene function on life history traits in those environments. This evidence suggests that examination of differential gene expression in different environments allows for prediction of degree of mutational effects of those genes in those environments.
Centromeres, crucial components of the genome, connect chromosomes to spindles through the kinetochore complex. The DNA sequence of centromeres is not primarily responsible for kinetochores' formation or function; instead, it is primarily an epigenetic phenomenon. A recent study focused on maize CENPC, a key inner kinetochore protein, and discovered that RNA transcribed from centromeres remains bound within the kinetochore region and is involved in the epigenetic marking system. The DNA-binding reaction of CENPC is sensitive to single-stranded RNA, and long, single-stranded nucleic acids promote the binding of CENPC to DNA. Centromeric RNA helps recruit CENPC to the inner kinetochore by altering its DNA binding characteristics. Centromeric DNA does not function to recruit kinetochores until it is combined with specific epigenetic marks. Centromeric RNAs are under-methylated, transcribed to produce stable RNAs that remain tightly bound to chromatin, and facilitate or stabilize the association of kinetochore proteins with centromeric DNA. CENPC is a highly divergent protein defined by a short 23 amino acids motif, and in plants, there is no evidence that CENPC binds to centromeric DNA beyond the presumption that CENPC is functionally conserved. A small region of CENPC has been repeatedly duplicated in the grasses, suggesting that it may bind to DNA. Maize CENPC has both DNA-binding and RNA-binding capacities, and the DNA/RNA-binding domain is localized to the exon duplication region. RNA directly facilitates the binding of CENPC to DNA in vitro, providing a biochemical mechanism for the involvement of RNA in centromere specification. CENPC and RNA are a part of the template that directs CENH3 to newly replicated centromere DNA.
Human genomes are diploid, meaning they inherit one set of chromosomes from each parent. However, most human sequencing initiatives do not directly delineate the nucleotide content of the maternal and paternal copies of the 23 chromosomes. A study compared 11 different approaches to phasing human genomes using the Genome-In-A-Bottle (GIAB) phased version of the NA12878 genome as a gold standard. The study found that a hybrid or combined approach that leverages population-based phasing, either genome-wide sequencing read data or parental genotypes, and a large reference panel of variant and haplotype frequencies provides a fast and efficient way to produce highly accurate phase-resolved individual human genomes. Phasing performance is enhanced with the addition of genome-wide read data and the inclusion of parental genotype data. A majority voting scheme for the construction of a consensus haplotype and the identification of DNA sequence signatures associated with genomic regions harboring phasing switch errors can further improve phasing performance. Whole genome sequencing (WGS) of individual human genomes has been made possible by rapid advances in DNA sequencing technology, but inherent limitations such as short DNA sequence read lengths and difficulty identifying structural variation remain. Understanding how cis and trans combinations of variants impact phenotypic expression is likely to be of crucial importance in human biology, and obtaining phase information is critical for this activity. Most genome sequencing strategies do not segregate the nucleotide content of each copy of a homologous chromosome pair, and phase information is only relevant for heterozygous loci. Obtaining phase (haplotype) information is often non-trivial and a number of strategies have been developed to generate phase information, including laboratory protocols, de novo assembly computational methods, and population haplotype frequency information. Hybrid computational approaches to phasing a single genome are accurate and cost-effective, and exhibit a performance that nearly matches or surpasses laboratory-based approaches.
In contrast to HIV infection in humans and SIV in macaques, SIV infection of natural hosts such as sooty mangabeys (SM) is non-pathogenic despite robust virus replication. A novel SM CCR5 allele containing a two base pair deletion (Δ2) encoding a truncated molecule that is not expressed on the cell surface and does not support SIV entry in vitro has been identified. This allele is present in 26% of a large SM colony and 8% of animals are homozygous for defective CCR5 alleles. CD8+ and CD4+ T cells display a gradient of CCR5 expression across genotype groups, and animals lacking functional CCR5 have robust plasma viral loads, similar to wild-type animals. SIVsmm primary isolates can infect both homozygous mutant and wild-type PBMC in a CCR5-independent manner in vitro, and Envs from both CCR5-null and wild-type infected animals use CXCR6, GPR15, and GPR1 in addition to CCR5 in transfected cells. These data suggest that SIVsmm tropism and host cell targeting in vivo is defined by the distribution and use of alternative entry pathways in addition to CCR5. The presence of these alternative pathways raises the possibility of novel CCR5-negative target cells that may be more expendable than CCR5+ cells and enable the virus to replicate efficiently without causing disease in the face of extremely restricted CCR5 expression seen in SM and several other natural host species. Understanding natural host infection has become a high priority for identifying key features of infection in vivo that regulate pathogenesis and potentially identify opportunities to modulate disease apart from or in addition to suppressing overall virus replication through pharmacologic or immune mechanisms.
In this study, researchers investigated the relationship between insulin signaling, reproduction, and attractiveness in fruit flies. They found that global manipulation of insulin signaling, a central nutrient-sensing pathway, affects the composition and attractiveness of the female pheromone profile. Specifically, they discovered that the effects on attractiveness derive from insulin signaling in the fat body and ovarian follicle cells, whose signals are integrated by pheromone-producing cells called oenocytes. They also found that all investigated tissue-specific insulin signaling manipulations that changed attractiveness also changed fecundity in the corresponding direction, pointing to insulin pathway activity as a reliable link between fecundity and attractiveness cues. The cues themselves, cuticular hydrocarbons, responded distinctly to fat body and follicle cell manipulations, indicating independent readouts of the pathway activity from these two tissues. Therefore, female attractiveness results from an apparent connection between attractiveness cues and an organismal state of high fecundity, both of which are created by lowered insulin signaling in the fat body and increased insulin signaling in late follicle cells. These findings suggest that insulin signaling plays a crucial role in the regulation of attractiveness and fecundity in fruit flies.
Triple-negative breast cancers (TNBCs) are a heterogeneous group of breast cancers that lack expression of estrogen receptor (ESR1), progesterone receptor (PGR), and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) and are often characterized by basal-like molecular features. These cancers are aggressive and have poor outcomes due to high rates of relapse and acquired chemoresistance. TNBCs can be further divided into Basal-like and Claudin-low subtypes, with Claudin-low tumors characterized by reduced expression of intercellular junction components and activation of molecular pathways associated with epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), cancer stem cells, and the immune response. Histologically, TNBCs are typically invasive ductal carcinomas, but they can also include metaplastic, medullary, and adenocystic special types. TNBCs are insensitive to endocrine therapy and HER2 antagonists, but they are sensitive to chemotherapy.Basal-like breast cancers often inactivate three tumor suppressors that are infamous for their roles in familial cancers: Rb (RB1), p53 (TP53), and BRCA1. p53 is mutated in 20-30% of human breast cancers, and nearly all Basal-like cancers with BRCA1 mutation have concomitant p53 mutation. Germline BRCA1 mutation predisposes early-onset breast cancers that are often triple-negative and that correlate with Basal-like tumors in microarray analyses. BRCA1 also functions as a transcription factor that is required for the differentiation of stem/progenitor cells into mature luminal cells.In a study, mice with combined inactivation of Rb, p5
"Legionella pneumophila, a gram-negative bacterium found in freshwater environments, causes a severe pneumonia in humans known as Legionnaires' disease. L. pneumophila uses a type IV secretion system, Dot/Icm, to translocate effector proteins into host cells and manipulate host cellular processes to promote infection. A new study has discovered a ""metaeffector"" in L. pneumophila, an effector protein that regulates the function of another effector within the host cell. The metaeffector, LubX, is a U-box-type E3 ubiquitin ligase that hijacks the host proteasome to specifically target the bacterial effector protein SidH for degradation. This regulation allows for the temporal coordination of distinct activities of effectors at different stages of infection. The expression and translocation of LubX is induced upon infection and the levels of LubX within host cells come to maximum at later stages of infection. The gene encoding LubX is in close proximity to genes that encode several other type IV effectors, including VipD and SidH. Surprisingly, analyses of these effector proteins led to the identification of SidH as a target of LubX. LubX acts as a negative temporal regulator of SidH within host cells. This is the first example of a bacterial effector that targets and regulates a cognate effector within the host cells. The temporal regulation of SidH mediated by L. pneumophila LubX E3 ligase and the host proteasome system illustrates a novel mechanism by which bacterial effectors are regulated. The discovery of an effector having a regulatory role on another effector provides unique insight into the sophisticated mechanisms that underlie the ability of L. pneumophila to coordinate the function of such a large array of effector proteins with diverse activities."
The use of time-series transcriptomics data to infer regulatory interactions and create quantitative models of gene regulation has been extensively studied and applied in various fields such as drug discovery, cancer research, and biotechnology. However, these methods are based on assumptions about the biological processes being studied, such as the representativeness of mRNA abundance measurements for protein concentrations and the sole influence of transcription factors on changes in gene expression. These assumptions are often not valid and can lead to biased results. In this study, the authors use a combination of models and experiments to investigate the importance of this bias and possible corrections. They measure the activity of genes involved in the FliA-FlgM module of the E. coli motility network in real time and in vivo, and estimate protein concentrations and global physiological effects using kinetic models of gene expression. They find that correcting for the bias of commonly-made assumptions improves the quality of the models inferred from the data. This approach is applicable when using time-series transcriptome data to learn about the structure and dynamics of regulatory networks, and the authors demonstrate its importance in the case of the FliA-FlgM module. This study highlights the need for careful consideration of the assumptions underlying the use of transcriptomics data in the inference of regulatory interactions and quantitative models of gene regulation.
Soil-transmitted helminth (STH) infections, including Ascaris lumbricoides, hookworm, and Trichuris trichiura, affect over a billion people worldwide. Preventive chemotherapy, which involves repeated administration of anthelmintic drugs to at-risk populations, is the main control strategy. However, this approach does not prevent reinfection. A systematic review and meta-analysis were conducted to assess the patterns and dynamics of STH reinfection after drug treatment. The review identified 154 studies, of which 51 were included in the analysis. The studies were conducted in 26 countries and included data on A. lumbricoides, T. trichiura, and hookworm. The analysis found that reinfection with STH occurs rapidly after treatment, particularly for A. lumbricoides and T. trichiura. The reinfection prevalence for A. lumbricoides was 26% (95% CI: 16--43%) at 3 months, 68% (9
Rabies is a fatal disease preventable through post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP), which involves immediate wound washing, expeditious administration of rabies vaccine, and for severe exposure categories, infiltration of purified rabies immunoglobulin (RIG) in and around the wound. However, RIG is expensive and in short supply in low-income countries, leading to its limited use. PEP delivery failures can occur due to vaccine shortages, costs for victims and healthcare providers, and poor patient compliance, leading to human rabies deaths. ID vaccination is more economical than IM delivery, using smaller volumes of vaccine to elicit an equivalent immune response, but it requires vaccine sharing among patients and bacterial contamination prevention measures. WHO-recommended PEP regimens are safe, immunogenic, and efficacious, and policy should aim to prevent failures in PEP delivery. The variety of WHO-recommended PEP regimens allows flexibility, but can lead to confusion. A framework for comparing cost-effectiveness of different PEP regimens from the perspective of both healthcare providers and bite victims under a range of scenarios is essential. ID regimens use less vaccine than IM regimens, are cost-effective, and increase in cost-effectiveness with throughput. High throughput clinics are the most cost-effective, while low throughput clinics are the least cost-effective. Provision of PEP using ID regimens is more economic than provision of PEP using IM regimens. Charging patients for exactly the amount of vaccine administered using the ID route results in a net loss for healthcare providers, except in high throughput clinics. Charging patients per ID injection at rates slightly greater than the price of the vaccine used results in net savings in most locations. Other strategies such as charging higher rates but for the primary presentation only or for primary and secondary presentations only also result in significant savings for high throughput clinics. Extrapolations suggest that even in countries with mainly low throughput clinics, savings could be made. When patients are required to pay for PEP vaccination, the most preferable regimen for bite victims varies depending on pricing strategies and relative travel costs. The cost-effectiveness of PEP is affected by compliance, with a greater proportion of preventable deaths averted as the efficacy of the regimen increases. The risk of death increases with the costs of PEP as patients become less likely to comply with regimens. For all pricing strategies, patients who live further from clinics have reduced compliance and heightened risks.
Uganda has active foci of both chronic and acute HAT, with the acute zoonotic form classically restricted to the southeast but spreading to new districts, linked to the movement of infected cattle. Cattle act as long-term reservoirs of human infective T. b. rhodesiense, posing a significant risk to human health. A study in Kaberamaido and Dokolo Districts found higher odds of T. brucei s. l. infection in cattle from case than non-case villages. Cattle age significantly affected the likelihood of T. brucei s. l. infection, with cattle between 18-36 months and over 36 months having higher odds of infection. Village human sleeping sickness status significantly affected the detection of T. b. rhodesiense in the village cattle herd, with significantly higher odds of T. b. rhodesiense in the village cattle of case villages. A higher than average T. brucei s. l. prevalence in a village herd was associated with significantly higher odds of T. b. rhodesiense being detected in a herd. The spread of acute HAT and the presence of T. b. rhodesiense in cattle pose a serious public health problem in Uganda.
Dietary restriction (DR) has been shown to extend lifespan in various species, including humans, and delay the onset of age-related diseases. The target of rapamycin (TOR) pathway is essential for longevity phenotypes resulting from DR in flies and yeast. TOR is a conserved protein kinase that regulates growth and metabolism in response to nutrients and growth factors. The hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) is one of the targets of the TOR pathway in mammalian cells and is a transcription factor complex that plays key roles in oxygen homeostasis, tumor formation, glucose metabolism, cell survival, and inflammatory response. A study in Caenorhabditis elegans found that HIF-1 deficiency results in extended lifespan, which overlaps with that by inhibition of the RSKS-1/S6 kinase, a key component of the TOR pathway. HIF-1 modulates longevity in a nutrient-dependent manner, and increased lifespan by hif-1 or DR is dependent on the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress regulator inositol-requiring protein-1 (IRE-1) and is associated with lower levels of ER stress. The TOR pathway is a key mediator of nutrient-modulated lifespan changes in flies, yeast, and worms, and the C. elegans TOR pathway modulates lifespan. However, it is unclear whether TOR affects DR-mediated lifespan extension. HIF-1 is a novel lifespan determinant in C. elegans and acts downstream of the nutrient-responsive TOR-S6K pathway to determine lifespan. HIF-1 might modulate lifespan through mechanisms that are distinct from those used by the IIS pathway. Lifespan extension by inhibition of rsks-1 and hif-1 takes place through overlapping mechanisms. HIF-1 acts downstream of the nutrient-responsive TOR-S6K pathway to determine lifespan in C. elegans. Under high nutrient status, decreased HIF-1 levels may cause a shift to the DR state, and overexpression of HIF-1 partially inhibits the lifespan extension effect of DR. EGL-9 is an important regulator of longevity due to a genetic mimic of DR by the eat-2 mutant. Pharyngeal muscle expression of egl-9 by the myo-2 promoter partially rescued the mutant, suggesting that muscle tissue plays an important role in C. elegans aging. ER stress is involved in the lifespan extension by DR and the hif-1 mutant in C. elegans. The IRE-1 ER stress pathway is a key effector of both hif-1 and DR with respect to lifespan extension. HIF-1 modulates ER stress in response to nutritional variations. The TOR, IIS, and IRE-1 ER stress pathways are involved in the lifespan extension by DR and hif-1 in C. elegans.
Acetogens, microorganisms that can ferment a wide range of substrates, are ideal candidates for the biotechnological production of commodity chemicals, particularly those that can grow on syngas, a mixture of H2/CO/CO2. However, advanced design strategies for acetogens are limited by incomplete knowledge of their physiology and the inability to accurately predict phenotypes. To gain new insights into the biology of the model acetogen Clostridium ljungdahlii, a novel genome-scale model of metabolism and macromolecular synthesis (ME-model) was reconstructed. This model represents the first ME-model of a Gram-positive bacterium and captures all major central metabolic, amino acid, nucleotide, lipid, major cofactors, and vitamin synthesis pathways as well as pathways to synthesize RNA and protein molecules necessary to catalyze these reactions. The model accurately predicted secretion of multiple fermentation products and revealed how protein allocation and media composition influence metabolic pathways and energy conservation in acetogens. Predicting overflow metabolism enables new design strategies, such as the formation of glycerol, a novel product for C. ljungdahlii, thus broadening the metabolic capability for this model microbe. Prediction and experimental validation of changing secretion rates based on different metal availability opens the window into fermentation optimization and provides new knowledge about the proteome utilization and carbon flux in acetogens. Understanding the role of trace metals is particularly important for acetogens, as metals are crucial for the WLP. Insights into such requirements provide an opportunity to rationally manipulate the WLP and other pathways for improved biotechnological outcomes. The completed Clostridium ljungdahlii ME-model, named iJL965-ME, captures all major central metabolic, amino acid, nucleotide, lipid, major cofactors, and vitamin synthesis pathways as well as pathways to synthesize RNA and protein molecules necessary to catalyze these reactions. The reconstruction includes WLP, with updated cofactors, and its associated mechanisms for energy conservation. The model accurately predicted secretion of acetate, ethanol, and glycerol during changing carbon and metal availability and revealed how protein allocation and media composition influence metabolic pathways and energy conservation in this model acetogen.
Arabidopsis thaliana CRY2 is a photoreceptor that regulates photoperiodic flowering through multiple mechanisms, including suppression of COP1-mediated degradation of CONSTANS (CO), regulation of the circadian clock, and direct modulation of FT transcription through interaction with CIB1. CIB1 is a bHLH transcription factor that interacts with CRY2 in a blue light-dependent manner and affects transcription of promoters containing canonical or non-canonical E-boxes. CIB1 has a higher affinity for the canonical E-box in vitro but exhibits similar activities in vivo. CIB1 stimulates FT mRNA expression and interacts with the chromatin DNA of the FT gene that lacks a canonical E-box but contains various non-canonical E-box elements. CIB1 heterodimerizes with other bHLH proteins to alter their preference or affinity to different DNA sequences in vivo. At least three additional CIB1-related bHLH proteins, CIB2, CIB4, and CIB5, can interact with CRY2 and/or CIB1. CIBs function redundantly to activate the transcription of FT and flowering initiation. The expression of CIBs proteins is regulated specifically by blue light. Overexpression of CIB1 results in accelerated flowering in the wild-type background but not in the cry1cry2 mutant background, demonstrating that the floral promotion activity of CIB1 is dependent on cryptochromes. CIB1 acts together with additional CIB1-related proteins to promote CRY2-dependent floral initiation.
Enteric bacterial pathogens, such as Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC), cause foodborne illnesses that result in a significant economic and health burden. EHEC can cause severe bloody diarrhea and a potentially fatal kidney disease known as hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), for which there is no effective treatment or prophylaxis. EHEC and other enteric pathogens utilize a type III secretion system (T3SS) to inject virulence proteins (effectors) into host cells, which disrupt the normal function of intestinal epithelial cells. A study has found that the E. coli O157:H7 nleH1 and nleH2 genes encode T3SS effectors that bind to the human ribosomal protein S3 (RPS3), a subunit of nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) transcriptional complexes. NleH1 and NleH2 co-localized with RPS3 in the cytoplasm but not in cell nuclei. The N-terminal region of both NleH1 and NleH2 was required for binding to the N-terminus of RPS3. NleH1, but not NleH2, reduced the nuclear abundance of RPS3 without altering the p50 or p65 NF-κB subunits or affecting the phosphorylation state or abundance of the inhibitory NF-κB chaperone IκBα. NleH1 repressed the transcription of a RPS3/NF-κB-dependent reporter plasmid, but did not inhibit the transcription of RPS3-independent reporters. In contrast, NleH2 stimulated RPS3-dependent transcription, as well as an AP-1-dependent reporter. The inhibitory activity of NleH1 toward RPS3 is at least partially due to a region of NleH1 (N40-K45). Deleting nleH1 from E. coli O157:H7 produced a hypervirulent phenotype in a gnotobiotic piglet model of Shiga toxin-producing E. coli infection. These findings suggest that NleH may disrupt host innate immune responses by binding to a cofactor of host transcriptional complexes.
High-altitude regions, above 2,500 m sea level, pose significant challenges for human habitation due to low ambient oxygen tension caused by decreased barometric pressure, known as high-altitude hypoxia. The Andean Altiplano and Tibetan Plateau are two high-altitude regions where humans have lived for millennia, leading to unique circulatory, respiratory, and hematological adaptations. Although these physiological responses have been well-studied, the underlying genetic basis remains unclear. A genome scan was conducted to identify genes showing evidence of adaptation to hypoxia in Andean and Tibetan populations.Four population genetic statistics were applied to detect signatures of natural selection, revealing that both populations show evidence of positive natural selection in different genes or gene regions. Interestingly, the EGLN1 gene, known to be important in cellular oxygen sensing, shows evidence of positive selection in both Tibetans and Andeans, but with different patterns of variation. The study suggests that several key HIF-regulatory and targeted genes are responsible for adaptation to high altitude in Andeans and Tibetans, with different chromosomal regions implicated in the response to selection.The genetic role in high-altitude adaptation provides a basis for future genotype/phenotype association studies necessary to confirm the role of selection-nominated candidate genes and gene regions in adaptation to altitude. This research highlights the importance of understanding the genetic mechanisms responsible for adaptation to high-altitude hypoxia, contributing to the understanding of the genetic and evolutionary architecture of adaptation to altitude and human phenotypic diversity.
The Machupo virus (MACV) and Junin virus (JUNV) are New World arenaviruses that cause hemorrhagic fever in humans in South America. MACV is the etiological agent of Bolivian hemorrhagic fever (BHF) and JUNV causes Argentine hemorrhagic fever (AHF). Both viruses use human transferrin receptor 1 as their receptor. The glycoprotein precursor (GPC) of these viruses is synthesized as a single polypeptide and cleaved into the stable signal peptide (SSP), GP1/GP2 complex, GP1, and GP2 subunits. The GP1 subunit binds to the receptor and the GP2 subunit contains the transmembrane domain (TMD) and a cytoplasmic tail. A single F427I substitution in TMD of JUNV GPC leads to attenuation of JUNV, but the mutation alone is not sufficient to fully attenuate JUNV. The equivalent F438I substitution in GP2 TMD attenuates MACV in IFN-αβ/γ R-/- mice, but the mutant MACV is genetically unstable and reversion to wild type virus has been identified. In this study, recombinant MACVs with the ectodomain of MACV GPC replaced by its counterpart of Cd#1 were rescued and characterized. The results suggest that the indispensable role of each GPC domain in the full attenuation and immunogenicity of rMACV/Cd#1 GPC.
The study evaluates the performance of a new commercial dengue NS1 detection test, the Dengue Early Rapid, both alone and in combination with a dengue IgM and IgG rapid test, in two separate study sites in Southeast Asia. The Dengue Early Rapid is a 15-minute immunochromatographic test designed for the qualitative detection of dengue NS1 antigen in human serum. The study found that when the Dengue Early Rapid test was used in combination with the IgM/IgG test, the sensitivity increased to 93.0%. The Dengue Early Rapid test was developed using an equimolar combination of Ab2 and Ab1 MAbs immobilized onto nitrocellulose membrane with the cross-reactive Ab3 MAb conjugated to colloidal gold particles for detection of captured NS1. The limit of detection for NS1 secreted from dengue-infected Vero cells was comparable to the recombinant proteins. The Dengue Early Rapid had a sensitivity of 69.2% and a specificity of 96% when tested on 198 laboratory-confirmed dengue cases and 100 endemic non-dengue specimens. Dengue is a significant public health threat with an estimated 50 to 100 million cases per year and around 3 billion people at risk of infection. There is currently no licensed dengue vaccine available and the only means of prevention is through surveillance and vector control. An early and accurate laboratory diagnosis of dengue could assist clinical management. However, molecular techniques such as PCR require specialised equipment and there has been little progress in the standardisation of protocols, which has limited their utility in lower socio-economic countries where there is a need for simple and affordable testing. Relatively inexpensive serological tests, and in particular rapid point-of-care devices, have become more widely used in endemic settings.
TIR domains in Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are crucial for initiating and propagating the eukaryotic innate immune signaling cascade. A Staphylococcus aureus TIR mimic, TirS, is part of a novel bacterial invasion mechanism that inhibits TLR signaling and downregulates the NF-kB pathway through inhibition of TLR2, TLR4, TLR5, and TLR9. The ectopic expression of TirS in eukaryotic cells has been shown to reduce inflammation and lower neutrophil and macrophage activity, confirming its role in virulence attenuation through local inflammatory responses. TirS is associated with the staphylococcal chromosomal cassettes (SCC) containing the fusC gene for fusidic acid resistance but not always carrying the mecA gene. Sub-inhibitory concentration of fusidic acid increases tirS expression, and epidemiological studies have identified a selective advantage with a SCCmec element with SCC fusC/tirS. Therefore, two key traits determining the success and spread of bacterial infections are linked. The innate immune system is the first line of defense against microbial pathogens, and TLRs are required for many host innate immune responses. The TLR signaling pathway is a key target of pathogen mechanisms of host immune system evasion, and bacterial TIR homologues are potential host evasion mechanisms. TirS is a TIR homolog protein carried by a mobile genetic element conferring resistance to antibiotics, suggesting a potential selective advantage for S. aureus. TirS is spread among 12% of MRSA and MSSA strains and is associated with the MRSA Geraldine clone. Whole-genome alignment and search for site-specific insertion sequences have shown that tirS is invariably present within the SCC element of all six MRSA and MSSA genomes analyzed, and this gene is found in a highly conserved region within the J1 region, consisting of five open reading frames (ORFs) that include the tirS gene but also the fusC gene. BLASTn searches have revealed the presence of the tirS region in 17 staphylococci, and for 15 of the S. aureus strains in which the tirS region was detected, a whole-genome shotgun sequence was available, and they belonged to four distinct clonal complexes: CC1, CC5, CC8, and CC22.
Protein modifications, particularly N-terminal acetylation of proteins, play crucial roles in various biological processes across different organisms. This modification involves the co-translational acetylation of the N-terminus of a nascent polypeptide chain, often after the removal of the initiating methionine residue. While the enzymes and protein complexes involved in these processes have been extensively studied, the biological functions of such N-terminal modification events remain largely unknown.To identify common principles of N-terminal acetylation, researchers analyzed amino-terminal peptides from proteins extracted from Drosophila Kc167 cells and detected over 1,200 mature protein N-termini. They found that N-terminal acetylation occurs in insects with a similar frequency as in humans and identified the (X) PX rule, which indicates the prevention of acetylation under all circumstances. This rule can be used to genetically engineer a protein to study the biological relevance of the presence or absence of an acetyl group, providing a generic assay to probe the functional importance of N-terminal acetylation.N-terminal acetylation is a common and irreversible modification of proteins that often combines two consecutive events: the removal of the N-terminal methionine by methionine aminopeptidases and the acetylation of the amino-terminus by N-terminal acetyl transferases. These processes usually take place co-translationally on the nascent polypeptide chain. An estimated 60%-90% of the cytosolic proteins are acetylated at their N-terminus, but the biological relevance of N-terminal acetylation has been determined only for a few proteins.The study of N-terminal acetylation in Drosophila melanogaster revealed that amino-terminal acetylation is a common event, and the sequence requirements for N-terminal acetylation are similar to those in other eukaryotes. The analysis also detected the use of 124 previously unknown alternative translation initiation sites and/or splice variants and identified a definite determinant, the (X) PX rule, that prevents N-terminal acetylation under all circumstances. This finding can be applied to study the function of N-terminal acetylation in various organisms.Enriching for N-terminal peptides through combined fractional diagonal chromatography (COFRADIC) and protein amines blocked by trideutero-acetylation allowed for the identification of 835 N-terminal peptides and the detection of 124 alternative translation initiation sites or un-annotated splice variants. This dataset not only confirmed many of the predicted translation sites in the fly but also identified novel alternative translation initiation sites.In summary, N-terminal acetylation is a common protein modification with significant biological functions that cannot be predicted from the primary amino acid sequence. The (X) PX rule, which prevents N-terminal acetylation under all circumstances, can be used to study the functional importance of N-terminal acetylation in various organisms, providing valuable insights into the role of this modification in biological processes.
Exosomes, small membrane-encapsulated vesicles that transfer genetic material between cells, have been found to play a role in viral infections, including Enterovirus 71 (EV71) infection. EV71, a non-enveloped, single-strand positive sense RNA virus, is a major cause of hand-foot and-mouth disease and can lead to severe neurological complications. Exosomes released from EV71-infected cells contain replication-competent EV71 RNA and can mediate EV71 transmission independent of virus-specific receptor. The exosomal viral RNA can be transferred to and replicate in a new target cell, while the exosomal miR-146a suppresses the type I interferon response in the target cell, facilitating viral replication. In vivo studies showed that exosomal viral RNA exhibited differential tissue accumulation as compared to free virus particles. The upregulation of exosome secretion in EV71-infected cells is regulated by IFN-stimulated gene factors, such as BST-2/tetherin, which are involved in regulating EV71-induced upregulation of exosome secretion. These findings suggest that exosomes play a crucial role in the EV71 viral life cycle and can modulate host immunity and impact viral infection.
The interaction between chromatin loops plays a crucial role in determining the level of variability in gene expression. Recent experiments have shown that the connection pattern, distance between regulatory elements, and communication form of chromatin loops affect mRNA expression and noise. A mechanistic model was developed to understand how changes in these factors impact variability in expression level. The model shows that nested loops enhance mRNA expression and reduce expression noise, while alternating loops have the opposite effect. Facilitated tracking performs better than direct looping in controlling mean expression and tuning expression noise, but this control or tuning is distance-dependent and there is a limit loop length where the difference in effect between the two communication forms almost disappears. These findings support the facilitated chromatin-looping hypothesis.Chromatin loops play a critical role in the spatial, temporal, and physiological control of gene expression. They can be divided into two families: promoter-proximal DNA elements and distal DNA elements. Complexity in transcription activation arises from the ordered interactions among regulatory elements, including the formation of DNA loops and interactions between DNA loops. These interactions are biochemically complex and lead to stochastic gene transcription, resulting in cell-to-cell variability in gene expression. This stochasticity is essential for many cellular functions and has been identified as a key factor underlying the observed phenotypic variability of genetically identical cells in homogeneous environments.Enhancers activate promoters by directly contacting binding sites for transcription factors and chromatin-modifying enzymes via DNA looping. DNA elements may form chromatin loops in different manners, such as promoter-tethering elements in Drosophila that allow activation by specific enhancers over long distances and the CI protein in bacteriophage λ that forms a DNA loop that brings a distal stimulatory site close to RNA polymerase at the PRM promoter. DNA looping can maintain a stable lysogenic state, speed up the search process, enhance lysogenic CI transcription, increase the range of bistability, and enhance or suppress transcriptional noise.Previous studies have treated looping mechanisms as local, but recent experimental evidence shows that DNA-looping interactions are global, with one DNA loop interacting with another DNA loop. The classic models of gene expression assume direct spatial contact between a distal enhancer and a proximal promoter, but recent chromatin capture technologies have shown that enhancers and promoters are connected in a highly complex network of DNA-looping interactions. Long-range gene regulation in eukaryotic cells involves spatial interactions between transcriptional elements, with intervening chromatin looping out.Two views on communication between enhancer and promoter have become mainstream: the direct looping model and the facilitated-tracking model. The former assumes a direct interaction between two chromosomal regions by looping out the intervening DNA sequence, while the latter assumes that enhancer-bound proteins move progressively in a unidirectional manner towards the promoter, resulting in the formation of a progressive loop. By modeling and analysis, the facilitated chromatin-looping hypothesis is justified.In summary, experiments have shown that loop connection pattern, loop distance, and communication form impact gene expression and cell-to-cell variability in gene expression. A stochastic model was developed to understand how these factors impact variability in expression level. The model shows that nested loops promote gene expression but reduce expression noise, while alternating loops reduce the mean expression level but enlarge the noise. The facilitated-tracking mechanism performs better than the direct looping mechanism in enhancing (or reducing) expression and reducing (or enlarging) noise, depending on connection patterns. The effects of controlling expression and tuning noise are distance-dependent and there is a limit loop length where the difference in effect between the two communication forms almost disappears. These findings support the facilitated chromatin-looping hypothesis and provide insights into how living organisms or cells use the facilitated-tracking mechanism to deal with information about their environments.
"The predictive ability of understanding the behavior of a large network from its individual modules is still largely missing in systems and synthetic biology due to context-dependent behavior of modules. One cause of context-dependence is retroactivity, which influences the dynamic performance of a module upon connection to other modules. A framework for gene transcription networks that explicitly accounts for retroactivity has been established. The key properties of a module are encoded by three retroactivity matrices: internal, scaling, and mixing retroactivity. These matrices have a physical interpretation and can be computed from macroscopic parameters and topology of the module. The internal retroactivity quantifies the effect of intramodular connections on an isolated module's dynamics, while scaling and mixing retroactivity establish how intermodular connections change the dynamics of connected modules. Based on these matrices and the dynamics of modules in isolation, accurate predictions can be made on how loading will affect the behavior of an arbitrary interconnection of modules. The implications of internal, scaling, and mixing retroactivity on the performance of recurrent network motifs have been illustrated, and a quantitative metric has been provided to determine the robustness of a module's dynamic behavior to interconnection with other modules. This metric can be employed both to evaluate the extent of modularity of natural networks and to establish concrete design guidelines to minimize retroactivity between modules in synthetic systems. The model can capture the effects of retroactivity, providing a model that explicitly describes the change in the dynamics of a module once it is arbitrarily connected to other modules in the network. A single module without inputs has been focused on, and a model has been provided that well approximates the isolated module dynamics, in which only measurable macroscopic parameters appear. The implications of this model for negative autoregulation, combinatorial regulation, and the activator-repressor clock have been presented. The retroactivity of node describes how retroactivity among the nodes internal to the module affects the isolated module dynamics. The internal retroactivity describes how ""stiff"" the module is against changes in due to loading applied by internal connections. The diagonal entries of describe how hard it is to change the concentration of free by changing its total concentration, while the off-diagonal entries describe how the second parent facilitates or blocks the binding of the first. The model has been extended to the case in which the module has external TFs as inputs. The external retroactivity of the module describes how external TFs force internal TFs to bind/unbind. The main result of this section describes how the context of a module affects the module's dynamics due to retroactivity. Specifically, the dynamics of the module connected to the context are well approximated by (12) with (13), where describes how retroactivity between the module and the context affects each other's dynamics, and is called the scaling retroactivity of the context. The mixing retroactivity of the context refers to the ""mixing"" of the dynamics of the module and that of its context, and establishes how internal TFs force external TFs to bind/unbind. When a perturbation applied in the context can result in a response in the upstream module, leading to a counter-intuitive transmission of signals from downstream to upstream, the simulation results can be explained. The context rescales the dynamics of the module, making the temporal dynamics of the module slower, and the smaller, the greater the effect of this scaling. The contribution of the context compared to that of the module to the dynamics of the module upon interconnection is stronger with the copy number of . Completely independent binding can be hard to realize in the case of combinatorial regulation, and nodes integrating signals from different modules should not be placed into the input layer. Multi-module systems should be designed and analyzed such that the modules have zero mixing retroactivity, which can be achieved by avoiding non-independent binding at the interface nodes."
"The survival rate for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients is low, particularly in advanced stages, with only a 1% survival rate. However, for patients with resectable disease, the choice of preoperative chemotherapy is critical to eliminate micrometastasis and improve operability. An ""in silico"" experimentation can suggest the optimal treatment protocol for each patient based on their own multiscale data. The successful prediction of a patient's response to treatment depends on the accurate estimation of the drugs' cytotoxic efficacy on cancer cells. A study applied a mechanistic model of cancer response to treatment to estimate the cell killing efficacy of various cisplatin-based doublet regimens for NSCLC patients. The model incorporated mechanisms such as uncontrolled proliferation, population heterogeneity, hypoxia, and treatment resistance. The study found that the volume growth rate and the growth fraction at diagnosis were key features for more accurate estimates. The methodology was applied to retrospective data of thirteen NSCLC patients who received cisplatin in combination with gemcitabine, vinorelbine, or docetaxel in the neoadjuvant context. The model can be used to estimate the in-vivo cell-killing ability of various chemotherapies, and correlation studies with the molecular profile of patients could serve as a basis for reliable personalized predictions."
The Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome (AHDS) is a genetic neurological disorder characterized by severe psychomotor retardation, neurological impairments, and endocrine alterations in thyroid hormone (TH) parameters. AHDS is caused by mutations in the monocarboxylate transporter 8 (MCT8/SLC16A2) gene, which is a TH transporter. However, the pathophysiological mechanisms of AHDS are not well understood. To determine these mechanisms, MCT8 knockout mice and zebrafish models were studied. MCT8 knockout mice replicated the endocrine and metabolic abnormalities found in human patients but did not display any neurological or behavioral phenotypes. On the other hand, MCT8 mutant zebrafish exhibited neurological and behavioral deficiencies, including reduced locomotor activity, altered response to light and dark transitions, increased sleep time, altered expression of myelin-related genes, circuit-specific deficiencies in axon branching and synaptic density, and altered locomotor activity and sleep. Comparative pharmacological assays demonstrated that TH analogs can restore a portion of the neurological phenotypes in MCT8 mutant zebrafish. These findings suggest a neurological mechanism and treatment for AHDS and potentially other related psychomotor retardation disorders.
The study investigates the role of population subdivision in facilitating the crossing of fitness valleys or plateaus in asexual populations, which are characterized by their genotype and associated fitness. The population is subdivided into demes, each with a constant number of individuals and experiencing migration at an equal rate between any two demes. The research focuses on a minimal fitness landscape involving three successive genotypes, with the first mutation being either neutral or deleterious and the second mutation being beneficial. The study aims to determine the optimal speedup of valley or plateau crossing by subdivision and the conditions under which it can be achieved.The research findings indicate that subdivision can significantly accelerate fitness valley or plateau crossing over a wide range of parameters. The optimal speedup of valley or plateau crossing by subdivision occurs when isolated demes are in the sequential fixation regime and valley or plateau crossing by the subdivided population is as fast as that of its fastest deme. The magnitude and robustness of the effect are discussed for realistic parameter values. Additionally, the study considers the trade-off between the magnitude of the optimal speedup and the width of the parameter range over which it occurs.In conclusion, the study provides valuable insights into the role of population subdivision in evolution and the quantitative conditions necessary for population subdivision to accelerate fitness valley or plateau crossing. These findings have implications for inferring fitness landscape structure from evolution experiments and the understanding of evolution in subdivided populations in natural systems.
The nuclear pore complex (NPC) is a critical structure in the nuclear envelope that regulates the transport of molecules between the nucleus and cytoplasm in eukaryotic cells. The NPC is composed of about 30 distinct proteins called nucleoporins (nups), and individual nups are related to several human diseases. The NPC acts as a freeway for passive diffusion of molecules and ions smaller than ∼5 nm in diameter, while actively controlling and facilitating the transport of larger cargos up to about 39–40 nm by discriminating between inert and karyopherin-bound cargos. Karyopherins (kaps) are a family of soluble proteins that shuttle different cargos between the cytoplasm and nucleoplasm via the NPC, in a process known as nucleocytoplasmic transport (NCT). A single NPC can accommodate a remarkable rate of transport on the order of ∼1000 translocations/sec, corresponding to a mass flow of ∼100 MDa/sec. The NCT happens in a channel about 50 nm wide and in a millisecond time scale in vivo. However, the biophysical details of the NCT remain unclear due to the narrow size and compactness of the NPC, and the transient interactions happening between FG-repeats and the cargo-complex on the order of nanoseconds. A coarse-grained model of the NPC has been established to mimic the NPC functionality and study the sequential events leading to the NCT cycle. The model predicts that the first-passage time of a 15 nm cargo-complex is about 2.6±0.13 ms, and the cargo-complex is primarily attached to the channel wall where it interacts with the FG-layer as it passes through the central channel. The kap-FG hydrophobic interaction is highly dynamic and fast, ensuring an efficient translocation through the NPC. Almost all eight hydrophobic binding spots on kap-β are occupied simultaneously during transport. Cytoplasmic filaments-deficient NPCs show a high degree of permeability to inert cargos, implying the defining role of cytoplasmic filaments in the selectivity barrier.
Staphylococcus aureus is a harmful bacterium that can cause various diseases and forms biofilms, which are difficult to treat due to their high resistance to antibiotics and the immune system. Biofilms are communities of bacteria enclosed in a matrix made up of proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides. A new study has discovered that the biofilm matrix of S. aureus contains amyloid-like fibers composed of small peptides called phenol soluble modulins (PSMs). These fibers promote biofilm integrity and make it more resistant to disassembly by enzymes and mechanical stress. Previous work has shown that PSMs promote biofilm disassembly, but the new research suggests that the aggregation of PSMs into amyloid-like fibers can modulate their biological activity and role in biofilms. This finding could lead to new approaches for treating persistent biofilm-associated infections.
The Type II Secretion System (T2SS) is a molecular machine that transports fully-folded protein substrates across the bacterial outer membrane. A crucial component of this machinery is the secretin, an integral outer membrane protein that forms the secretion pore. Three distinct forms of T2SSs can be classified based on the sequence characteristics of their secretin pores. Detailed analysis of two of these, the Klebsiella-type and Vibrio-type, revealed differences in the pilotin that mediates their transport and assembly into the outer membrane. AspS, a novel pilotin from Vibrio cholerae, is functionally equivalent to pilotins in Klebsiella and other bacteria but structurally unrelated, demonstrating convergent evolution. AspS binds to a specific targeting sequence in Vibrio-type secretins, enhancing the kinetics of secretin assembly. Homologs of AspS are found in all Vibrio species and some strains of Escherichia and Shigella that have acquired a Vibrio-type T2SS. Bacterial outer membranes incorporate proteins of at least three well-characterized architectures: β-barrel proteins, lipoproteins, and secretins. The assembly of these proteins into the outer membrane is facilitated by different machinery. In the case of the T2SS, the secretin multimer in the outer membrane docks onto a platform of inner membrane proteins that energize its function in the selection and/or secretion of one or a few substrate proteins across the outer membrane into the external milieu. The PulD polypeptide, an archetypal T2SS secretin, has three identifiable domains: the N-domain that docks it to the inner membrane components of the T2SS, the secretin domain responsible for multimerization, and the S-domain which is critical for PulD to engage the targeting pathway that will deliver it to the outer membrane. This targeting of PulD depends on the action of a lipoprotein chaperone, referred to as a pilotin, which carries the determinants to be recognized by the Lol machinery receptor LolB. In K. oxytoca, the pilotin is called PulS, the progenitor member of the PulS-OutS family of proteins found in diverse species of γ-proteobacteria. Pilotins of the PulS-OutS family function by directly binding to a short segment within the S-domain of their appropriate secretin. The S-domain of PulD is both necessary and sufficient for secretin targeting, and mapping experiments using affinity chromatography and structural analysis show that the S-domain of PulD is natively-disordered but, that binding to PulS induces folding, complementarity, and fit in the S-domain:PulS complex. Recent characterization of the T2SS in enteropathogenic E. coli O127:H6 str. E2348/69 (EPEC) revealed its function in secreting the protein substrate SslE, a homologous protein AcfD is widely distributed in species of Vibrio, suggesting that organisms like Vibrio cholerae use the T2SS to secrete both cholera toxin and SslE/AcfD. In EPEC, SslE secretion is required for biofilm formation, and, similarly, in V. cholerae AcfD secretion is required for intestinal colonization. It is unclear how the T2SS secretin is assembled in the organisms that secrete SslE/AcfD, as EPEC does not encode the pilotin EtpO, and V. cholerae genomes have not been reported to encode any members of the PulS-OutS family of proteins.
Burkholderia pseudomallei is a bacterium that can survive in soil and water, but can also infect animals and cause melioidosis, a disease with a high fatality rate even with rapid diagnosis and treatment. Iron is essential for bacterial growth, and Burkholderia species acquire iron through siderophore-dependent uptake and heme uptake. Burkholderia pseudomallei produces a hydroxamate-type siderophore called malleobactin, and genome-wide microarray expression and whole genome sequence analyses have identified genes encoding other iron acquisition systems such as a pyochelin (pch) gene cluster, a heme uptake locus (hmu), and plasma membrane iron transporters. However, the contribution of these systems to B. pseudomallei virulence is unknown. Previous research has shown that a clinical isolate of B. pseudomallei lacking the malleobactin biosynthetic gene cluster was still able to cause human melioidosis and was fully lethal in a mouse model, which was surprising because in other bacterial species, siderophores are essential for infection and full virulence. Therefore, a study was conducted to elucidate the contribution of the malleobactin siderophore and other annotated iron acquisition systems to virulence in isogenic B. pseudomallei mutants. The study found that none of these systems is required for lethality in a mouse model of melioidosis and provided evidence for a ferritin-iron utilization system. This suggests that B. pseudomallei may employ a novel ferritin-iron acquisition pathway as a means to sustain in vivo growth.
This passage discusses the effects of Schistosoma mansoni infection in pregnant women on their offspring's immune response to the same infection. The study found that offspring of Schistosoma mansoni-infected women in schistosomiasis-endemic areas may be sensitized in-utero, which can influence their immune responsiveness to schistosome infection and schistosomiasis-associated morbidity. However, the effects of praziquantel treatment of S. mansoni during pregnancy on the risk of S. mansoni infection among offspring and their immune responsiveness when they become exposed to S. mansoni are unknown.To examine the effects of praziquantel treatment of S. mansoni during pregnancy on prevalence of S. mansoni and immune responsiveness among offspring at age five years, a trial was conducted in Uganda. Offspring of women treated with praziquantel or placebo during pregnancy were examined for S. mansoni infection and for cytokine and antibody responses to SWA and SEA, as well as for T cell expression of FoxP3, at age five years. The results showed that infection prevalence did not differ between children of treated or untreated mothers. However, cytokine and antibody responses to SWA and SEA, and FoxP3 expression, were higher among infected than uninfected children. Praziquantel treatment of S. mansoni during pregnancy had no effect on immune responses, with the exception of IL-10 responses to SWA, which was higher in offspring of women that received praziquantel during pregnancy than those who did not.In-utero sensitization to schistosome antigens occurs in up to 50% of offspring born to women with schistosomiasis during pregnancy. Those who do not show an immune response may not have been exposed to relevant antigen due to the placental barrier or may have been exposed and developed tolerance. For those who are tolerant, this may be due to induction of regulatory mechanisms or to deletion of schistosome antigen-specific cells. When the baby is sensitized in-utero, profiles of infant responses resemble the mothers' responses: mixed type one, type two cytokine responses and a prominent IL-10 response. Immune responses to schistosome antigens typical of those observed in adults can be established in-utero in offspring born to schistosome-infected women.In summary, the study found that praziquantel treatment of S. mansoni during pregnancy had no effect on the prevalence and intensity of S. mansoni infection or effector immune response to S. mansoni infection among offspring at age five years. However, the observed effects on IL-10 responses to SWA suggest that maternal S. mansoni and its treatment during pregnancy may affect immunoregulatory responsiveness in childhood schistosomiasis, which might have implications for pathogenesis of the disease. Additionally, in-utero sensitization to schistosome antigens might influence schistosomiasis morbidity by modulating the immune response and subsequent pathology associated with S. mansoni infection. Balanced type one/type two immune responses are needed to limit morbidity, and responses established in-utero could influence this balance.
Hox genes are major regulators of the anterior-posterior body axis in animals, including fruit flies, fish, and humans. They code for transcription factors that regulate downstream genes to drive morphogenesis. Hox proteins regulate a large number of downstream genes, including those with broad effects on morphology and those involved in terminal differentiation. Hox genes are expressed in broad and partially overlapping domains, but they affect target gene expression in precisely defined sub-domains. The spatio-temporal precision of Hox target gene regulation is not well understood, but it is thought to involve the combinatorial interaction of Hox proteins with other transcription factors on small, modular Hox response elements (HREs). A study on the cell death gene reaper (rpr) found that local activation of rpr expression in the anterior part of the maxillary segment is achieved through a combinatorial interaction of the Hox protein Deformed (Dfd) with at least eight functionally diverse transcriptional regulators on a minimal enhancer. This suggests that context-dependent combinations of Hox proteins and other transcription factors on small HREs could be responsible for the proper spatio-temporal expression of Hox targets. Thus, a large number of transcription factors are likely to be directly involved in Hox target gene regulation in vivo.
The antiproliferative response to anticancer treatment is a complex process that involves cells in all stages of the cell cycle and spans multiple generations. A new experimental/computational approach has been proposed to model this process using time-lapse live cell microscopy and flow cytometric data to render the proliferative process through the cell cycle and subsequent generations during/after treatment. The effects of treatments were modelled with modules describing the functional activity of the main pathways causing arrest, repair, and cell death in each phase. A framework modelling environment was created to apply different types of modules in each phase and test models at the complexity level justified by the available data. This method was challenged with time-course measures taken in parallel with flow cytometry and time-lapse live cell microscopy in X-ray-treated human ovarian cancer cells, spanning a wide range of doses. The most suitable model of the treatment, including the dose-response of each effect, was progressively built by combining modules with a rational strategy and fitting simultaneously all data of different doses and platforms. The final model gave the complete rendering in silico of the cycling process following X-ray exposure, providing separate and quantitative measures of the dose-dependence of G1, S and G2M checkpoint activities in subsequent generations. This approach has the potential to improve our understanding of the effects of ionizing radiation on cancer cells and could be useful for optimizing cancer treatment strategies.
The horizontal acquisition of DNA by bacteria significantly increases their genetic diversity, enabling successful colonization of various niches, including the human host. A crucial issue is how this newly acquired DNA interacts and integrates with the bacterial cell's regulatory networks. The H-NS protein, a global modulator, targets both core genome and horizontally transferred genes (HGT), silencing gene expression in response to external stimuli such as osmolarity and temperature. However, H-NS differentially modulates core and HGT DNA. Plasmid R27-encoded H-NS has evolved to selectively silence HGT genes without interfering with core genome regulation. Chromosomal H-NS requires the Hha protein to differentially regulate both gene lineages. The presence of Hha-like proteins is restricted to the Enterobacteriaceae, and conjugative plasmids encoding H-NS variants have been isolated only from members of this family, indicating unique evolutionary features. The capacity to selectively discriminate between core and HGT DNA may help maintain horizontally transmitted DNA in a silent form, providing a competitive advantage in adapting to new environments, including host colonization. H-NS targets HGT DNA, contributing to efficient silencing of unwanted expression of foreign DNA and facilitating integration into the host regulatory network. However, H-NS also modulates the expression of housekeeping genes, necessitating a balance between its roles as a genome sentinel and a general gene regulator. Plasmidic H-NS-like proteins show functional differences from chromosomal counterparts, potentially reducing the fitness cost of housing HGT DNA by targeting plasmid sequences while leaving chromosomal H-NS available for its corresponding chromosomal targets. H-NS interacts with members of the Hha/YmoA family to specifically silence HGT but not core genome genes, indicating that H-NS sensitive genes form two distinct genetic compartments.
A study was conducted to examine the neutralizing antibody (Nab) responses in 21 Kenyan women who were superinfected with HIV-1 after an initial infection. The study found that superinfection (SI) with diverse subtypes promotes the development of a broad polyclonal Nab response, providing support for vaccine designs using multivalent HIV immunogens to elicit a diverse repertoire of Nabs. The 21 women were exposed to HIV-1 subtypes A, C, and D and superinfected after a median time of ~1.07 years following initial infection. Plasma samples were collected at a median time point of ~2.72 years post-SI and analyzed for Nab responses to four main epitopes on the HIV-1 Envelope, including the CD4-binding site, a V1/V2 glycan, the N332 supersite in V3, and the membrane proximal external region of gp41. The study found that SI did not induce a dominant Nab response to any one of these epitopes in the 21 women. Additionally, computational sera delineation analyses suggested that 20 of the 21 superinfected women’s Nab responses could not be ascribed a single specificity with high confidence. These data support a model in which exposure to diverse HIV-1 antigens following SI drives a broad and potent Nab response that may be mediated by polyclonal antibodies targeting multiple different epitopes. This study is the first to examine the Nab specificities in a cohort of superinfected individuals, and the findings suggest that a vaccine designed to elicit a diverse repertoire of Nabs may be effective in protecting against diverse HIV-1 subtypes.
The use of Linear Mixed Models (LMMs) in genome-wide association studies has gained popularity in recent years for modeling population substructure and relatedness. Several LMM methods and software packages have been developed, but it is often unclear how they differ from previously proposed implementations. This study compares the performance of several LMM approaches, including EMMAX, GenABEL, FaST-LMM, Mendel, GEMMA, and MMM, by applying them to a genome-wide association study of visceral leishmaniasis in 348 Brazilian families comprising 3626 individuals. The study finds strong concordance between the results from different LMM approaches and high correlation between LMMs and alternative approaches. The LMM approaches perform well in comparison to competing approaches, and the choice of precise LMM implementation cannot be based on power/type I error considerations but must instead be based on considerations such as speed and ease-of-use. The study also finds that LMMs are successful in controlling the genome-wide error rate, except for some approaches when applied naively to longitudinal data with many repeated measures.
The researchers in this study sought to understand how transient associations among neurons occur and can be identified, as they are thought to underlie memory and behavior. They recorded ongoing local field potential (LFP) activity at multiple sites within the cortex of awake monkeys and organotypic cultures of cortex, discovering that when the composite activity of a local neuronal group exceeds a threshold, its activity pattern, as reflected in the LFP, occurs without distortion at other cortex sites via fast synaptic transmission. These large-amplitude LFPs, which they call coherence potentials, extend up to hundreds of milliseconds and mark periods of loss-less spread of temporal and amplitude information much like action potentials at the single-cell level. However, coherence potentials have an additional degree of freedom in the diversity of their waveforms, providing a high-dimensional parameter for encoding information and allowing identification of particular associations. The existence and identification of such assemblies has been difficult, requiring a criterion that separates the activities of neurons inside the cell assembly from those outside the assembly. The study found a sigmoidal relationship between the amplitude of a deflection in the spontaneous LFP, reflecting the aggregate neuronal activity at a single cortical site and the occurrence of the identical LFP waveform and amplitude at other sites with millisecond delays. This phenomenon of all or none, loss-less propagation of activity at high amplitudes arises by virtue of synaptic transmission. These results suggest a “tipping point” in the cortical network dynamics analogous to that found for the spread of ideas, innovation, and economic behavior in social networks, where a small increase in the number of participating agents can suddenly lead to widespread cascades of adoption.
"The study discussed here focuses on the relationship between polarized exocytosis and endocytosis, particularly in the context of the yeast Rab GTPase Sec4p. Sec4p is known to play a crucial role in polarized exocytosis, but this study reveals that it also impacts endocytosis. After exocytosis, Sec4p binds to Las17/Bee1p, Sla1p, and Sla2p, which are key components of actin patch assembly, a crucial step in endocytosis. Mutations in Sec4p or its guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) Sec2p affect actin patch formation, with the activating sec4-Q79L mutation accelerating patch assembly. In vitro assays further support this model, indicating that Sec4p promotes actin polymerization and triggers compensatory endocytosis, thereby controlling surface expansion and refining cell polarization. This suggests a direct regulatory mechanism for integrating the late stages of post-Golgi exocytosis with endocytic internalization, with the exocyst complex playing a key role as a ""network hub"" for coordinating the two trafficking pathways at the cell surface."
Miltefosine, an anti-cancer drug, has been successfully repositioned for the treatment of Leishmania infections and recently shown promising effects against Schistosoma spp, targeting all life cycle stages of the parasite. A study examined the effect of treating Schistosoma mansoni adult worms with miltefosine on exposure of worm surface antigens in vitro. In an indirect immunofluorescence assay, rabbit anti-S. mansoni adult worm homogenate and anti-S. mansoni infection antisera gave strong immunofluorescence of the S. mansoni adult worm surface after treatment with miltefosine. Rabbit antibodies that recognized surface antigens exposed on miltefosine-treated worms were recovered and used in a western immunoblotting assay to identify antigenic targets in a homogenate extract of adult worms. Four proteins reacting with the antibodies in immunoblots were purified and proteomic analysis indicated they were the S. mansoni proteins: fructose-1, 6 bisphosphate aldolase, Sm22.6, alkaline phosphatase, and malate dehydrogenase. These antibodies were also found to bind to the surface of 3-hour schistosomula and induce immune agglutination of the parasites, suggesting they may have a role in immune protection. This study reveals a novel mode of action of miltefosine as an anti-schistosome agent and the potential of these antigens as intervention targets and antibodies against these antigens may act to increase the drug’s anti-parasite efficacy and be involved in the development of resistance to re-infection. Despite extensive control efforts, schistosomiasis is still prevalent in many countries and concerns are growing over development of resistance to the only drug available for treatment, praziquantel. The suboptimal efficacy of PZQ against immature stages of the infection is another concern. Thus, the search for an alternative therapeutic control or a combination strategy that is effective against multiple stages of the schistosome life cycle has become necessary. One approach that may accelerate discovery of new drugs is to identify and develop alternative uses for existing, approved drugs that have had their pharmacokinetics, toxicity and pre-clinical data evaluated - an approach known as ‘Drug-Repositioning’. Miltefosine is a promising example of a drug that has been successfully repositioned for the treatment of Leishmania infections and has shown promising effects against Schistosoma mansoni and Schistosoma haematobium in vitro and against different developmental stages of S. mansoni in vivo. The drug exhibited an advantage over PZQ by clearing the infection at the invasive, immature and adult parasite stages. The mechanism by which miltefosine exerts its effect is unclear, but it is believed to act mainly on cell membranes producing biophysical perturbation of lipid rafts and interfering with phospholipid metabolism and cell growth signalling pathways, subsequently promoting cell apoptosis. One of the drug targets is sphingomyelin, a schistosome membrane phospholipid, and evidence of damage to the schistosome tegument following treatment with miltefosine has been referred to in several reports. However, no studies have yet been conducted to clearly establish if the drug induces exposure of antigens on the parasite surface. In the present work, the authors evaluated the in vitro effect of miltefosine, relative to PZQ, on a Puerto Rican strain of S. mansoni and investigated whether the drug treatment would ‘unmask’ hidden antigens on the adult worm tegument using immunofluorescence and western immunoblotting assays linked to a proteomic approach i.e. tandem mass spectrometry. The likelihood of expression of the proteins exposed by the drug on the surface of adults and 3-hour schistosomula has also been investigated. Exposure of cryptic adult membrane proteins has previously been reported after treatment with PZQ and other anti-schistosomal drugs, and it is thought to be an important factor in host immune responses directed at intact worms and to be potentially involved in development of resistance to re-infection by targeting migratory schistosomula.
The distribution of proteins in neurons is crucial for their function, and this is mediated by polarized trafficking of vesicle-bound membrane proteins in axons and dendrites. While much is known about the role of kinesin motors in transporting these proteins, less is known about the role of myosin motors in their targeting. A recent study has shown that Myosin Va plays a critical role in targeting transmembrane proteins to dendrites, but the role of myosin motors in axonal targeting is unclear. Here, it is shown that Myosin VI, a minus-end-directed motor, plays a vital role in the enrichment of proteins on the surface of axons. Engineering non-neuronal proteins to interact with Myosin VI causes them to become highly concentrated at the axonal surface in dissociated rat cortical neurons. Additionally, disruption of Myosin VI function or expression leads to aberrant dendritic localization of axonal proteins. Myosin VI mediates the enrichment of proteins on the axonal surface at least in part by stimulating dendrite-specific endocytosis. These findings suggest that myosins help shape the polarized distributions of both axonal and dendritic proteins, which is necessary for proper electrical signaling in neurons.
The stability of ecosystems in relation to their complexity has been a topic of interest in ecology for a long time. The consensus that complexity begets stability in ecosystems was challenged in the 1970s, and this challenge has been extended to ecologically-inspired networks. However, these approaches assume the existence of a feasible equilibrium, i.e. an equilibrium with positive abundances. This key assumption has not been tested until now. The authors of this study have provided analytical results and simulations that show that equilibrium feasibility vanishes in species-rich systems. This means that the existence of a feasible equilibrium, which is assumed in local stability criteria, is not guaranteed. The authors further analyzed the impact of interaction structure and intensity on feasibility and stability, and found that feasibility and stability is warranted irrespective of species richness with weak interactions. The dynamical behavior of ecologically-inspired architectures is different and richer than that of unstructured systems. The authors suggest that a general understanding of ecosystem dynamics requires focusing on the interplay between interaction strength and network architecture. The stability of ecological systems is crucial for the sustained provisioning of vital ecosystem services. The study of the factors and conditions that ensure ecological systems to persist is a central question in ecology, and the authors of this study have contributed to this question by exploring the interplay between interaction strength and network architecture in the context of equilibrium feasibility in species-rich systems.
Vibrio cholerae, the bacterial pathogen that causes cholera, colonizes both the chitinous exoskeleton of zooplankton and the human gastrointestinal tract. A protein called GbpA mediates this colonization through an unknown mechanism. Recent studies have revealed that GbpA has an unusual, elongated, four-domain structure, with domains 1 and 4 showing structural homology to chitin binding domains. GbpA binds to GlcNAc oligosaccharides, and domains 1 and 4 are responsible for binding to chitin in vitro. In vivo studies show that domain 1 is also crucial for mucin binding and intestinal colonization. Domains 2 and 3 bind to the V. cholerae surface. Only the first three domains of GbpA are required for colonization in mouse virulence assays. These results explain how GbpA provides structural/functional modular interactions between V. cholerae, intestinal epithelium, and chitinous exoskeletons. V. cholerae causes excessive watery diarrhea in humans, resulting in over 100,000 reported cases per year worldwide. The bacteria's ability to adhere to and colonize cell surfaces is critical for its survival in both aquatic environments and the human intestine. GbpA plays a crucial role in this colonization process.
Marburg virus, Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV), and Dengue virus activate and benefit from the expression of the transcription regulator Nrf2, but the impact of Nrf2 on human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is unknown. Sulforaphane (SFN), produced in cruciferous vegetables, mobilizes Nrf2 to block HIV infection in primary macrophages and PMA-differentiated promonocytic cell lines, but not in other cell lines or primary T cells. This anti-viral activity is mediated through Nrf2, as siRNA-mediated depletion of Nrf2 boosted HIV infectivity in primary macrophages and reduced the anti-viral effects of SFN treatment. SFN treatment blocks HIV infection after entry but before formation of 2-LTR circles, similarly to the type I interferon-induced cellular anti-viral proteins SAMHD1 and MX2, but SFN treatment does not upregulate SAMHD1 or MX2. This study highlights a novel way to trigger Nrf2-mediated inhibition of HIV infection and suggests that SFN could be a new therapeutic alternative to overcome the limitations of highly active anti-retroviral treatment (HAART) in supporting prevention and cure strategies. SFN has been found to impair bacteria, fungi, and various viruses, including Influenza A, respiratory syncytial virus, and Epstein-Barr virus, but its impact on HIV infection in primary immune cells has not been tested. This study shows that SFN blocks HIV infection in macrophages but not in primary T cells, and that SFN does not impact HIV infection in HeLa, HEK293T, or GHOST cells, but markedly decreases evidence of infection in U937 and THP1 cells that were differentiated into a macrophage-like state. SFN blocks HIV replication in U937 cultures, but not by increasing SAMHD1 levels, and SFN-mediated impairment of HIV infection is not due to decreased cell viability. The anti-viral effect induced by SFN treatment is reversible, and the duration over which the anti-viral state is maintained depends on the SFN dose. SFN also impairs HIV-2 infection, and the SFN action is reporter-dependent. Continuous SFN treatment hinders both single-round and spreading infections and interferes with infection of virus bearing the HIV envelope glycoprotein as it also interferes with VSV-G-pseudotyped virus. SFN acts through Nrf2 to execute the majority of its known functions, and other known Nrf2 activators, dimethyl fumarate (DMF) and epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), also block HIV in single-round macrophage infections. DMF and EGCG hinder reporter virus expression in single-round HIV-1 infections of PMA-differentiated THP1 cells and exhibit minimal toxicity, and these observations suggest that each compound is acting before transcription in THP-1 infections. SFN requires Nrf2 to impair HIV infection of macrophages, and Nrf2 levels remain inversely proportional to infection levels even in the absence of SFN, supporting a model in which HIV infection is countered specifically through Nrf2, and SFN acts to block HIV by increasing Nrf2 levels. Overall, this study highlights the potential of SFN as a new therapeutic alternative to support prevention and cure strategies in HIV treatment.
The development of new drugs for Chagas disease is a priority due to the toxic effects, partial efficacy, and limited targeting of the acute phase of currently available medicines. There is no drug to treat the chronic stage of the disease. A study has optimized a whole-cell-based assay for high throughput screening of compounds that inhibit infection of mammalian cells by Trypanosoma cruzi trypomastigotes. A 2000-compound chemical library was screened, and three hits were selected for their high activity against T. cruzi and low toxicity to host cells. These three compounds, PCH1, NT1, and CX1, present different mechanisms of action on intracellular proliferation of T. cruzi amastigotes. CX1 shows strong trypanocidal activity, making it an essential characteristic for the development of drugs against the chronic stage of Chagas disease. NT1 has a trypanostatic effect, while PCH1 affects parasite division. These compounds also show high activity against intracellular T. cruzi from the Y strain and against the related kinetoplastid species Leishmania major and L. amazonensis. Two more compounds, PCH6 and CX2, were selected with IC50 values of 2 nM, which are approximately 100 times lower than those of the medicines used in patients against T. cruzi. These results provide new candidate molecules for the development of treatments against Chagas disease and leishmaniasis.
Bistability is crucial in gene regulatory networks (GRNs) governing many essential biological functions, such as cellular differentiation and cell cycle control. However, determining the network topologies that can exhibit bistability is challenging due to the vast variety of GRNs. A study used chemical reaction network theory to survey over 40,000 simple networks that can be formed by two transcription factor-coding genes and their associated proteins. The research found that approximately 90% of these GRN models could exhibit bistability, including many circuits without typical TF cooperativity and identified through a novel subnetwork-based analysis. Eleven minimal bistable networks were identified as the basis for the entire two-gene bistable network family. The study also demonstrated the predictive power of this theoretical survey in identifying bistable modules in organisms not fully explored from a functional genomics perspective using Saccharomyces cerevisiae data. This research highlights the potential of parameter-free modeling in simplifying the study of complex regulatory networks, understanding network evolution, and designing new synthetic biological circuits.
Filarial infections, caused by nematodes such as Wuchereria bancrofti and Brugia malayi, can lead to lymphatic dysfunction and obstruction, resulting in conditions like lymphedema and elephantiasis. The establishment of adult filarial parasites in the host's lymphatic vessels triggers a series of events that affect lymphatic integrity and function. This process is influenced by both the host's immune response and parasite-derived factors. Filarial parasites can induce lymphangiogenesis, a developmental process involving lymphatic endothelial proliferation and differentiation, which is mediated by filarial proteins and excretory-secretory products.In vitro studies have shown that filarial antigens, specifically those derived from adult parasites, induce lymphatic endothelial cell (LEC) proliferation, while antigens from microfilariae do not. This proliferative response is more specific to LEC compared to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Plasma from filaria-infected individuals, containing circulating filarial antigens and host angiogenic factors, also promotes LEC proliferation. Filarial antigens specifically induce LEC differentiation into tube-like structures, with microfilarial antigens being the most potent inducer. Live parasites, including microfilariae, adult males, and adult females, can also induce LEC differentiation. This differentiation process is contact-independent for microfilariae, primarily mediated by their excretory-secretory products.Microarray studies have revealed that filarial antigens alter the expression of genes involved in cellular organization, development, and junction adherence pathways, affecting trans-endothelial transport. Specific genes associated with lymphangiogenesis, such as CADM1, TBK-1, GJA4, CD36, ANGPTL4, ICAM-2, MMP-1, CASK, TGFBI, VIP, CTGF, OLFML3, SORBS2, GJA1, and MARCKS, are found to be altered upon stimulation with filarial antigens. These changes are associated with network functions of cellular development, cellular assembly and organization, hematologic system development and function, and cancer/tumor morphology.The microfilaria-induced increases in gene expression related to cell-cell contact, tissue remodeling, and angiogenesis are accompanied by significant inhibition of TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 levels and induction of MMP-1 expression. These changes suggest that MfAg-induced LEC differentiation may be associated with induction of MMP-1 and inhibition of TIMP-1 and TIMP-2.In vitro studies using LEC monolayers exposed to filarial antigens have shown that they do not increase trans-endothelial passage of small molecules. Instead, filarial antigens can impede the permeability effect of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as TNF-α and IL-1α.Overall, these findings demonstrate that filarial antigens specifically induce LEC proliferation and differentiation, contributing to lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic dysfunction in filarial infections. The molecular mechanisms underlying these processes involve complex changes in gene expression, tissue remodeling, and angiogenesis.
This summary discusses a paper that presents a novel approach for predicting the targets of plant-pathogenic Xanthomonas bacteria TALEs (Transcription Activator-Like Effectors) in host cells. TALEs function as transcriptional activators on plant target genes to support bacterial virulence. The new approach, PrediTALE, improves prediction performance compared to previous methods by accounting for recent findings concerning TALE targeting, such as frame-shift binding by repeats of aberrant lengths and the flexible strand orientation of target boxes relative to the transcription start of the downstream target gene. PrediTALE also considers dependencies between adjacent RVD positions and learns model parameters from quantitative data generated over the last years. The authors benchmark PrediTALE using RNA-seq data after Xanthomonas infection in rice and find an overall improvement of prediction performance. They demonstrate that PrediTALE can predict several novel putative virulence targets and recover known targets from promoterome-wide scans, while proposing to replace promoterome-wide by genome-wide scans for target boxes to detect putative targets independent of existing gene annotations.
The evolution of new gene networks is a key factor in bacteria's ability to adapt to new environments, including pathogenic interactions with host organisms. One example of this is the archetypal DNA binding protein, OmpR, which is identical in Salmonella Typhimurium serovar Typhimurium and Escherichia coli. However, regulatory specialization has resulted in different environmental triggers of OmpR expression and largely divergent OmpR regulons in these two species. Specifically, ompR mRNA and OmpR protein levels are elevated by acid pH in S. Typhimurium but not in E. coli, due to differences in the promoter regions of the ompR genes. The OmpR regulon in S. Typhimurium overlaps that of E. coli at only 15 genes and includes many horizontally acquired genes, including virulence genes, that E. coli does not have. OmpR binds to its genomic targets in higher abundance when the DNA is relaxed, a state that occurs in S. Typhimurium as a result of acid stress and is required for optimal expression of its virulence genes.The relationship between a regulatory protein and its target genes is subject to evolutionary change, allowing genes to join or leave a given regulon over time. Four types of variation have been described in the regulation of orthologous regulators and their regulons in related bacterial species: changes in the presence/absence and distribution of binding sites for a common regulatory protein at orthologous targets, genes acquired via lateral transfer coming under the control of a regulator already established in the cell, architectural adjustment of a promoter under the control of a regulator to add or subtract regulatory influence, and changes that affect the DNA binding protein itself.The OmpR DNA binding protein of Gram-negative bacteria has the potential to govern collectives of genes whose membership is subject to change. This is because OmpR demonstrates only moderate specificity for its DNA targets, allowing new binding sites to arise de novo in relatively few mutagenic steps. Furthermore, OmpR has the potential to respond to more than one environmental signal, giving it the potential to participate in regulon evolution from the standpoint of regulatory signal reception.In summary, the evolution of new gene networks through regulatory specialization and the ability of regulatory proteins like OmpR to bind to DNA with moderate specificity and respond to multiple environmental signals allows bacteria to adapt to new niches, including pathogenic interactions with host organisms.
Two-component signaling systems are crucial for bacteria, Archaea, and plants to sense and respond to environmental stimuli. These systems typically involve a sensory histidine kinase that phosphorylates a conserved aspartate (Asp) residue on a Receiver (REC) domain. However, some REC domains lack this phosphorylatable Asp residue, and their function and regulation are unclear. This study compiled and analyzed all deposited REC domains missing the phosphorylatable Asp residue, renaming them Aspartate-Less Receiver (ALR) domains. ALRs are common and are often attached to rare effector outputs. Structural and biochemical data suggest that ALRs have reorganized their active pockets to take on a constitutive regulatory role or accommodate input signals other than Asp phosphorylation, while largely retaining the canonical post-phosphorylation mechanisms and dimeric interface. This work defines ALRs as an atypical REC subclass and provides insights into shared mechanisms of activation between ALR and REC domains. Classical two-component signaling systems consist of a membrane-bound histidine kinase that phosphorylates a REC domain on a conserved Asp residue. However, a second class of more divergent REC domains has emerged, including ALR domains, which lack one or more standard 'invariant' features and are regulated by input signals other than histidine phosphorylation. ALRs are prevalent in nature and are functionally consolidated into more rarely observed specialized roles such as secondary messenger signaling, RNA-binding, Ser phosphorylation, and other enzymatic activities. Structural and biochemical analyses of the ALR RitR from Streptococcus pneumoniae suggest that in the absence of typical Asp phospho-regulation, RitR likely retains the conserved Y/T-coupling mechanism of activation. Overall, this work presents the ALR domains and gives insight into how they might work in the absence of typical phospho-regulatory mechanisms.
The DnaA protein is crucial for initiating bacterial replication and cycles between ATP-bound and ADP-bound forms. While it's the primary actor in initiation, its accumulation does not control the time of initiation. ATP-DnaA is the motor that drives the initiation process, but other factors are required for exact timing in response to the cell's environment. This study investigated the roles of DnaA-dependent inactivation (DDAH) and DnaA-binding protein DiaA. Loss of DDAH affects the cell cycle machinery during slow growth and makes it sensitive to DiaA protein concentration. The precise role of DnaA in the initiation of replication remains unclear, with evidence supporting both regulatory and motor functions. DnaA is essential for strand opening and recruiting the helicase during initiation, and its activity is influenced by ATP/ADP binding, high- and low-affinity binding sites, oligomer formation, and interaction with RNA polymerase. The regulation of DnaA is complex, involving inactivation processes like DDAH and RIDA, as well as de novo synthesis, DARS sites, and acidic phospholipids for regenerating the active ATP-bound form. Despite earlier findings suggesting that DnaA limits initiation frequency, recent studies indicate that excess DnaA does not necessarily lead to excess initiations or reduced initiation mass, and that other factors might be involved in the precise timing of initiation.
The rat dmy mutation is a unique model to study myelin maintenance in the CNS, as it causes severe myelin breakdown after normal postnatal completion of myelination. A G-to-A transition 177 bp downstream of exon 3 of the Mrs2 gene creates a novel splice acceptor site, resulting in functional inactivation of the mutant allele. Mrs2 encodes an essential component of the major Mg2+ influx system in mitochondria in both yeast and human cells. Dmy/dmy rats have major mitochondrial deficits, with elevated lactic acid concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid, reduced ATP, and increased numbers of mitochondria in the swollen cytoplasm of oligodendrocytes. MRS2 is mainly expressed in neurons and localized in the inner membrane of mitochondria. Mg2+ homeostasis in CNS mitochondria is essential for the maintenance of myelin.
Leishmaniasis is a significant global disease affecting 12 million people in 88 countries, with 2 million new cases yearly. In Brazil, Leishmania amazonensis is a major agent, causing various clinical forms, including localized and diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis. A study compared the proteomes of amastigotes isolated from BALB/c and BALB/c nude mice to understand how the host immune response affects Leishmania proteins. The athymic nude mice, with fewer T-cells, may resemble patients with diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis, who are often anergic to Leishmania's antigens. Among the 44 differentially expressed spots, proteins related to oxidative/nitrosative stress and proteases were identified, including known Leishmania virulence factors such as OPB and tryparedoxin peroxidase. Specific isoforms of these two proteins were increased in parasites from nude mice, suggesting that T-cells probably restrain their posttranslational modifications in BALB/c mice. This work's findings may allow the identification of potential virulence factors and ways of regulating their expression.
The study conducted in Thailand analyzed 498 isolates of C. neoformans and C. gattii from clinical, environmental, and veterinary sources using URA5-RFLP, M13 PCR-fingerprinting, and MLST analysis. The majority of the strains were C. neoformans molecular type VNI (94.8%), followed by VNII (2.4%), VNIV (0.2%), VGI (0.2%), and VGII (2.4%). MLST analysis identified 20 sequence types (ST) in Thailand, with ST30 unique to C. gattii and ST82, ST83, ST137, ST141, ST172, and ST173 unique to C. neoformans. The study revealed a greater genetic diversity and a wider range of major molecular types among Thai cryptococcal isolates than previously reported. The C. neoformans/C. gattii species complex is the causative agent of cryptococcosis, a systemic mycosis in a wide range of animals and humans. Inhalation of infectious propagules (basidiospores or blastoconidia) is the source of infection. C. neoformans has two varieties and three serotypes, while C. gattii comprises two serotypes. The ecological niches of both species are different, with C. neoformans found worldwide in soil enriched with pigeon excreta and decaying wood, and C. gattii in tropical and subtropical regions related to eucalyptus trees and other native tree species. Cryptococcosis is prevalent in immunocompromised hosts such as HIV positive patients, with C. neoformans being the major cause of infection and C. gattii affecting immunocompetent hosts. Before the AIDS era, C. gattii was the major cause of cryptococcosis in Thailand, but since 1992, C. neoformans var. grubii serotype A has become the major cause of infection due to a rising number of AIDS patients. The study aimed to expand the current epidemiological knowledge of Thai isolates by including additional clinical, environmental, and veterinary isolates of the C. neoformans/C. gattii species complex.
Scabies is a common, neglected global dermatological condition that primarily affects vulnerable populations, with an estimated 100-1
The study examines the role of type III interferon (IFNλ) in the innate immune response to bacterial pathogens in the respiratory tract. The research found that IFNλ promotes inflammation during bacterial pneumonia by inhibiting miR-21 regulation of PDCD4. The IFN family, including types I, II, and III, signals through STAT transcription factors to upregulate expression of IFN-dependent genes. Type III IFN signals through the more cell-specific receptor complex of IL-10R2 and IL-28R, primarily in mucosal tissues. In the lung, type III IFN is the primary IFN produced by respiratory epithelial cells in response to viral stimulation and is required for clearance of influenza from the airway. The study found that during bacterial pneumonia, IFNλ promotes inflammation by inhibiting miR-21 regulation of PDCD4, resulting in increased inflammatory cytokine production and lung pathology. The research suggests that targeting IFNλ or inhibition of IL-1R may improve clearance of bacterial pathogens and reduce lung damage.
This study introduces a neural network model that combines rewarded and non-rewarded spike time dependent plasticity (STDP) to achieve high learning performance in pattern discrimination and decision making tasks. The model is inspired by mammalian brain pathways and consists of two plastic layers: the first layer uses unsupervised learning to classify inputs, while the second layer, based on rewarded STDP, is responsible for decision making. The network simulates an agent moving through an environment, continuously learning distinct input patterns of food and adjusting synaptic weights controlling its movement according to reward and punishment signals based on the shape of food configurations. The model demonstrates that a multilayered network combining rewarded and non-rewarded STDP and synaptic regulatory mechanisms can solve a more complex foraging task, involving discrimination between elementary patterns of food, than previously reported networks with only one plastic layer based on rewarded STDP. This work expands upon a network with a single plastic layer designed to learn and perform a foraging task in a virtual environment, incorporating two layers of plastic synaptic connections and implementing both rewarded and non-rewarded STDP, resulting in a network that can learn to distinguish between patterns of different shape and acquire only food particles arranged in a particular way.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified disease susceptibility loci for common and complex diseases, but quantifying individual disease risk based on genotype data for personalized prevention and treatment remains an open question. Previous studies have primarily failed due to the use of a limited number of confirmed susceptibility loci. This study proposes using sophisticated machine-learning approaches with a large ensemble of markers to improve disease risk assessment. A Support Vector Machine (SVM) algorithm was applied to a GWAS dataset for type 1 diabetes (T1D) and optimized a risk assessment model with hundreds of markers. The model was tested on two independent datasets, resulting in area under ROC curve (AUC) of ~0.84 in both datasets. Poor performance was achieved when limited to a small number of known susceptibility loci in the SVM model or logistic regression model. The study suggests that improved disease risk assessment can be achieved by using algorithms that take into account interactions between a large ensemble of markers. Genotype-based disease risk assessment may be feasible for diseases where a notable proportion of the risk has already been captured by SNP arrays. GWAS have identified susceptibility loci for common and complex diseases, but the majority of risk factors remain unidentified. The failure of previous studies on predicting individual disease risk is not unexpected due to the limited number of susceptibility variants and simple statistical approaches used. This study utilizes an entire list of markers reaching a pre-defined statistical threshold for association with a disease and the Support Vector Machine (SVM) machine-learning technique. The SVM algorithm consistently outperformed logistic regression in assessing individual disease risk for T1D using three GWAS datasets. The best performance was achieved when a P-value cutoff of 1×10−5 was used for selecting SNPs for SVM model training. The SVM algorithm demonstrated more clear advantage over logistic regression in between-study validation, suggesting that SVM may be less susceptible to differential biases. An SVM-based risk assessment algorithm can accommodate differences in training data and generate consistent, robust results across different datasets.
Leishmaniasis is a significant public health issue, affecting 98 countries with an estimated 350 million people at risk and approximately 2 million cases annually. Brazil is one of the most severely affected countries. A 10-year study (2001-2010) in Brazil, using Bayesian geostatistical negative binomial models, analyzed the incidence of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis, emphasizing spatial and temporal patterns. The models were fitted using integrated nested Laplace approximations to perform fast approximate Bayesian inference. Bayesian variable selection identified climatic, environmental, and socioeconomic predictors of both types of leishmaniasis. Precipitation and socioeconomic proxies were identified as important risk factors for both cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis. The predicted number of cases in 2010 were 30,189 (SD: 7,676) for cutaneous leishmaniasis and 4,889 (SD: 288) for visceral leishmaniasis. The risk maps predicted the highest numbers of infected people in the states of Minas Gerais and Pará for visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis, respectively. These high-resolution incidence maps can help prioritize intervention areas and optimize resource allocation for control and elimination efforts.
IKAROS is a critical regulator of hematopoietic cell fate and its dynamic expression pattern is required for proper hematopoiesis. It promotes gene repression and activation in collaboration with the NuRD complex, and binds to the Positive-Transcription Elongation Factor b (P-TEFb) at gene promoters. IKAROS recruits NuRD and P-TEFb to specific genes, and the expression level of IKAROS influences the recruitment of this complex to gene regulatory regions, facilitating transcription elongation. The tumor suppressor IKAROS is also involved in transcriptional regulation of erythroid- and myeloid-specific genes and interacts with the phosphatase PP1, which is involved in CDK9 dephosphorylation. IKAROS interacts with PP1 and is dephosphorylated by this phosphatase, and this interaction may be important for Cdk9/P-TEFb activation and thus, transcription elongation of IKAROS-target genes. IKAROS is an adaptor molecule required for the recruitment of the NuRD-P-TEFb complex to IKAROS-target genes and the IKAROS-PP1 interaction is required for normal hematopoietic differentiation of primary HPCs. IKAROS facilitates productive transcription elongation at c-Kit and Flt3 genes and reduced IKAROS levels can perturb transcription elongation. Transcription elongation block does not affect loading of IKAROS, CDK9/P-TEFb and Mi2/NuRD at c-Kit TSS region, but impedes P-TEFb and, surprisingly, IKAROS and NuRD recruitment within the gene ORF. The NuRD complex can assist and facilitate POL II progression during transcription elongation. IKAROS interacts with the α catalytic subunit of PP1 and this interaction allows PP1α association with c-Kit and Flt3 TSS and promotes CDK9/P-TEFb activation in order to release promoter-proximal paused POL II.
Mitochondria, originating from proteobacterial endosymbionts, required protein import pathways as they evolved into organelles. The translocase of the outer membrane (TOM) is critical for initial protein import, with a triplet-pore TOM complex present in the last common eukaryotic ancestor. However, receptors for substrate binding have evolved independently in different eukaryotic lineages. In the excavate Trichomonas vaginalis, hydrogenosomes are anaerobic forms of mitochondria with a unique TOM complex (TvTOM). TvTOM has a triplet-pore structure, formed by Tom40-2, Tom22-like protein, Tom7 (predicted by phylogenetic profiling), and a fourth protein, Homp19, with no known homology. Two receptors, Tom36 and Tom46, have heat shock protein (Hsp) 20 and tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) domains, while the Tom22-like protein has a short cis domain and a conserved Tom22 transmembrane segment. TvTOM is associated with sorting and assembly machinery (Sam) 50 for β-barrel assembly. The TvTOM structure has three pores and a skull-like shape, lacking Tom7, but Sam50 is present. These findings suggest that the TOM complex has gone through significant modifications in different eukaryotic lineages, adapting to their specific needs.
This study is a genome-wide association study (GWAS) involving 19,091 breast cancer cases and 20,606 controls of East-Asian descent, including Chinese, Korean, and Japanese women. The study aimed to discover novel genetic susceptibility loci for breast cancer. After analyzing over 690,000 SNPs in two stages and evaluating 5,365 SNPs for replication in four stages, the study found strong evidence for a novel breast cancer susceptibility locus near the TGF-β activated kinase (TAB2) gene in chromosome 6q25.1. The SNP rs9485372 near the TAB2 gene showed a consistent association with breast cancer risk across all four stages, with a P-value of 3.8x10−12 in the combined analysis of all samples. The adjusted odds ratios for the A/G and A/A genotypes were 0.89 (0.85–0.94) and 0.80 (0.75--0.86), respectively, compared with the genotype G/G. Additionally, two possible susceptibility loci were identified, located in the ESR1 gene and 11q24.3, respectively. The study highlights the importance of GWAS in non-European women to fully uncover the genetic basis for breast cancer susceptibility.
The understanding of complex networks of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) is a major challenge of the post-genomic era, with large amounts of PPI network data becoming available due to advances in experimental biotechnology such as yeast-2-hybrid (Y2H) and tandem affinity purification (TAP). However, these data have high levels of noise and incompleteness, with false positive rates of up to 64% and false negative rates ranging from 43% to 71% for Y2H and TAP experiments. This paper presents a technique to assess the confidence levels of interactions in PPI networks obtained from experimental studies, using a geometric graph model to achieve specificity of 85% and sensitivity of 90%. The approach assigns confidence scores to physical protein-protein interactions in the human PPI network, predicting 251 interactions and validating a statistically significant portion of these predictions in the HPRD database and the newer release of BioGRID. PPI networks, modeled as graphs with nodes representing biomolecules and edges indicating interactions, are essential for understanding natural phenomena in computational and systems biology. Advances in high-throughput techniques have produced a growing amount of experimental PPI data with high levels of false positives and false negatives, making reducing noise and assessing confidence in interactions essential. This paper uses a high confidence data set of Saccharomyces cerevisiae PPI networks to test the approach, and demonstrates that a geometric graph model can be used for assessing the confidence levels of known interactions and predicting novel ones. The algorithm is based on Multi-Dimensional Scaling, with nodes in the geometric graph corresponding to points in a metric space and edges existing between nodes within a chosen distance. The algorithm successfully embeds PPI networks into a low-dimensional space, supporting the hypothesis that PPI networks are geometric.
Buruli ulcer (BU) is a chronic skin disease caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium ulcerans, which produces the cytotoxic macrolide exotoxin mycolactone. The virus primarily affects West African rural communities, but has also been reported in America, Australia, and Asia. Mycolactone is essential for bacterial virulence and induces necrotic non-inflammatory lesions similar to BU lesions. The pathogenesis of BU is mainly attributed to mycolactone, which is highly cytotoxic for a wide range of mammalian cell types and has immunosuppressive characteristics, interfering with the activation of immune cells such as T-cells, dendritic cells, monocytes, and macrophages. Despite these immunosuppressive features, many individuals develop immune responses associated with exposure to M. ulcerans without developing clinical disease, and high mRNA levels for the cytokines interferon-γ (IFNγ), interleukin-1β, and TNF-α have been found in human BU lesions, indicating that the innate immune system is activated at the site of infection. Reports on spontaneous healing of BU, and a partial protective effect of Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccination in humans and experimentally infected mice are all factors indicating that clearance of the M. ulcerans infection by the immune system is possible, in particular before large clusters of mycolactone producing extracellular bacteria have formed. Antibodies against surface antigens of M. ulcerans do not seem to have a protective effect, indicating that cellular, and in particular type 1 helper (TH1) cell responses are more important in immune defense against BU than humoral responses. IFNγ is critical for host defense against intracellular pathogens, and during M. ulcerans infection, an early intra-macrophage growth phase seems to play an important role before the formation of extracellular clusters of mycolactone producing bacteria can be observed. Protection mediated by IFNγ stimulated macrophages seems to be impaired by the suppression of IFNγ production after local build-up of mycolactone. A study was conducted to evaluate the role of IFNγ for host immune defense against M. ulcerans by comparing progression of the infection in IFNγ knockout and wild-type mice experimentally challenged with a fully virulent M. ulcerans isolate. The study found that IFNγ knockout mice displayed a faster progression of the infection compared to wild-type mice, indicating that mice lacking IFNγ have a reduced capacity to kill intracellular bacilli during the early intra-macrophage growth phase of M. ulcerans. This data demonstrates a prominent role of IFNγ in early defense against M. ulcerans infection and supports the view that concepts for vaccine development against tuberculosis may also be valid for BU.
The mosquito Aedes aegypti, a vector of dengue, chikungunya, and yellow fever viruses, is a significant target of vector control programs in tropical countries. Traditional Aedes aegypti surveillance relies on household larval surveys, but new trapping devices are available. A study in five mid-sized cities in Brazil compared the entomological indices generated by four types of traps (BG-Sentinel, Adultrap, MosquiTRAP, and ovitraps) and larval surveys in terms of sensitivity to detect mosquito density variation. Traps were more sensitive in detecting the presence of Ae. aegypti and produced fewer null indices than larval surveys. Trap positivity indices tended to plateau at high mosquito densities, but both positivity and density indices agreed on the seasonality of mosquito abundance in all cities. Mosquito seasonality was associated preferentially with temperature than with precipitation. All investigated traps performed better than the House Index in measuring the seasonal variation in mosquito abundance and should be considered as complements or alternatives to larval surveys. Choice between traps should further consider differences of cost and ease-of-use.
The article discusses the use of mean-field approximations in studying large neural networks and their limitations in describing networks composed of a small number of neurons. It highlights the importance of developing mathematical methods that correctly describe networks of small size to make progress in understanding neural dynamics at intermediate scales. The authors present a novel systematic analysis of the dynamics of arbitrarily small networks composed of homogeneous populations of excitatory and inhibitory firing-rate neurons. They study the local bifurcations of neural activity using an analytically tractable approach and numerically determine the global bifurcations. The study finds that for strong inhibition, these networks give rise to complex dynamics due to the formation of multiple branching solutions of the neural dynamics equations caused by spontaneous symmetry-breaking. This reveals qualitative and previously unexplored differences between mesoscopic cortical circuits and their mean-field approximation. The most important consequence of spontaneous symmetry-breaking is the ability of mesoscopic networks to regulate their degree of functional heterogeneity, which is thought to help reduce the detrimental effect of noise correlations on cortical information processing. The brain is a complex system organized at multiple spatial scales, and understanding the interactions between these scales is crucial for unveiling its emergent properties. The article describes the brain at the mesoscopic scale as a collection of neural masses, typically described by neural-mass models. The authors aim to develop an appropriate mathematical description of the brain at the mesoscopic scale, which is of fundamental importance for unveiling its emergent properties.
The Growing Polarised Tissue (GPT) framework is a polarity-based system used to understand how complex tissue shapes arise through growth in biology. In this framework, tissue is treated as a continuous material within which regionally expressed factors under genetic control may interact and propagate. Polarity is established by signals that propagate through the tissue and is anchored in regions termed tissue polarity organizers that are also under genetic control. Rates of growth parallel or perpendicular to the local polarity may then be specified through a regulatory network. The resulting growth depends on how specified growth patterns interact within the constraints of mechanically connected tissue, leading to the emergence of features such as curvature that were not directly specified by the regulatory networks. Resultant growth feeds back to influence spatial arrangements and local orientations of tissue, allowing complex shapes to emerge from simple rules. The GPT-framework has been applied to a growing Snapdragon flower, demonstrating how combinatorial interactions between orientations and rates of growth have been exploited during evolution to generate a range of observed biological shapes. This framework highlights the importance of considering mechanical constraints and the emergent properties of tissue growth in understanding morphogenesis.
Ophthalmo-acromelic syndrome (OAS), also known as Waardenburg anophthalmia syndrome, is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by eye malformations, most commonly bilateral anophthalmia, and post-axial oligosyndactyly. A locus for OAS was identified on 14q24.2, and homozygous, predicted loss-of-function mutations in the SMOC1 gene were found in eight out of fourteen unrelated families with OAS. SMOC1 and SMOC2 are vertebrate paralogs of the Drosophila protein Pentagone, which functions as an antagonist of Decapentaplegic (Dpp) signaling in vivo. Whole mount in situ hybridization (WISH) combined with optical projection tomography (OPT) shows site- and stage-specific developmental expression of the orthologous mouse gene, Smoc1, in embryonic limb bud and craniofacial structures. The phenotype associated with homozygosity for a targeted “pre-conditional” gene-trap mouse mutation of Smoc1 also shows significant overlap with the human disease. SMOC-1 and SMOC-2 appear to be the two mammalian paralogs of the Drosophila protein Pentagone that has recently been shown to function as an antagonist of Decapentaplegic (Dpp) signaling in vivo. The non-redundant developmental role of SMOC1 is evolutionarily conserved, and SMOC1 mutations are likely to result in severe or complete abrogation of protein function. The mutation of Arg278 to Cys may disrupt the highly conserved pattern of disulphide bonding within the second Tg1, and inhibition of a developmentally expressed peptidase, possibly a cysteine cathepsin, may be the non-redundant developmental function of SMOC-1. The expression analysis and targeted partial gene inactivation in mouse embryos strongly support the critical and non-redundant developmental role of SMOC-1 suggested by the human genetic analysis and that this role is conserved across evolutionary time.
The Drosophila genes, spalt major (salm) and spalt-related (salr), encode Zn-finger transcription factors that are regulated by the Decapentaplegic (Dpp) signalling pathway in the wing imaginal disc. These genes are required for cell survival, proliferation, and vein patterning in the wing disc. To identify candidate Salm/Salr target genes, microarray experiments were conducted to compare the expression profile of salm/salr knockdown wing discs with control discs. The results revealed a complex transcription landscape regulated by the Spalt proteins, with both positively and negatively regulated genes. Loss-of-function phenotypic analysis of these genes indicated a requirement for wing growth and patterning for a fraction of them. The identification and analysis of candidate Salm/Salr target genes provide new insights into the genetic control of growth and patterning of the Drosophila wing imaginal disc by the Dpp pathway. The wing imaginal disc is an epithelial tissue that grows by cell proliferation during larval development and differentiates the wing and half of the thorax during pupal development. The Dpp signalling pathway plays a fundamental role in this process by regulating the expression of transcription factors and specifying the central region of the wing blade, its growth, and patterning. Salm and Salr are transcriptional regulators that belong to a conserved family of transcriptional regulators, with important developmental roles during neural development and organogenesis in vertebrates. In Drosophila, Salm and Salr act as transcriptional repressors, and the mechanisms by which they regulate transcription are not fully understood. The spalt genes play a central role in mediating the effects of Dpp signalling during wing disc development, but the identity of Sal target genes is still unknown. Thus, the identification of Salm/Salr target genes is of critical importance to understand the genetic hierarchy acting downstream of Dpp signalling in the wing disc. The global transcriptional changes that occur in salm/salr knockdown discs, in combination with in situ hybridization assays and phenotypic analysis, have allowed the identification of a collection of candidate genes that are regulated by the Sal proteins and might mediate their functions in the wing disc. These results identify an unsuspected transcriptional complexity occurring downstream of Spalt that involves repression as well as activation of gene expression.
The study reports a new form of adaptation in a first-order auditory interneuron (AN2) of crickets. The response of the AN2 neuron to amplitude-modulated sound stimuli was characterized, and it was found that adaptation shifted the stimulus-response curves toward higher stimulus intensities. The response curves were reduced for low-intensity sounds, with a time constant of 1.5 seconds for adaptation and recovery. The study then explored the question of whether adaptation leads to an improvement of the signal's representation and tested the results against two competing hypotheses: infomax and selective coding. The experimental results showed that adaptation reduces the amount of encoded information when considering the whole range of input signals, and the response curve changes are not consistent with the infomax or selective coding hypothesis. The study highlights the importance of efficient encoding of natural signals in sensory pathways, as the neural representation should be matched to the relevant part of incoming signals. Firing rate adaptation provides a mechanism for the adjustment of the encoding scheme and the changes in the input-response curves should depend on what the relevant information is in the given context. The study used the AN2 neuron in the auditory pathway of crickets as a model to explore the response properties and test the two principles of maximum information preservation (infomax) and selective coding. The AN2 neuron is an ideal model because it receives direct input from auditory receptors and local interneurons at the first processing level and constitutes the only ascending representation of the auditory environment in the high-frequency channel. The study found that the input-response curves of the AN2 neuron adapt to the statistics of the acoustic environment, but the system does not perform a preprocessing that leads to a high fidelity representation of only the loudest part of the stimuli. Instead, the system encodes the whole stimulus range reliably, as the infomax principle predicts. The study provides a more suitable model to understand the principles lying behind sensory adaptation as coding is distributed among large populations of neurons and their responses are modulated by the activity of other neural populations or brain areas in higher stages of vertebrate sensory pathways.
The role of RpoS and its regulon in the tick phase of the Borrelia burgdorferi enzootic cycle has not been extensively studied. This study aimed to determine the contribution of the RpoS regulon to the transmission of spirochetes by feeding nymphs. The results showed that RpoS-dependent gene expression is necessary for the transmission of spirochetes by feeding nymphs. RpoS-deficient organisms are confined to the midgut lumen during the later stages of the blood meal, where they transform into an unusual morphotype (round bodies). This transformation is rapidly reversible, and reduced levels of Coenzyme A disulfide reductase contribute to round body formation. The spirochetes default to an RpoS-independent program for round body formation upon sensing that the energetics for transmission are unfavorable. RpoS is a stress response alternative sigma factor that regulates specific subsets of genes in response to changing environmental conditions. In B. burgdorferi, RpoS functions as a gatekeeper for controlling the upregulation of mammalian host-phase genes and the downregulation of tick-phase genes. The study found that RpoS-dependent genes are required to establish infection within the mammal and are expressed until spirochetes are acquired by naïve larvae. While the roles of rpoS and individual RpoS-dependent genes have been studied within the mammal, the contribution of the RpoS regulon to the tick-phase of the enzootic cycle has not been examined until this study.
Two-cysteine peroxiredoxins (2-Cys PRXs) are ubiquitous peroxidases with various functions in cells and are particularly important in organisms such as Leishmania and related trypanosomatids, which lack catalase and selenium-glutathione peroxidases. In Leishmania infantum, the mitochondrial 2-Cys PRX (mTXNPx) was found to be essential for the establishment of a successful infection in mammals, but not for promastigotes. The peroxidase activity of mTXNPx is not required for parasite survival in mice, as a peroxidase-inactive version of this protein was able to rescue the non-infective phenotype of mtxnpx−. Instead, a novel function for mTXNPx as a molecular chaperone is proposed, based on its ability to suppress the thermal aggregation of citrate synthase in vitro and the increased sensitivity of mtxnpx− to a temperature shift from 25°C to 37°C. These findings challenge the paradigm that all trypanosomatid 2-Cys peroxiredoxins are peroxide-eliminating devices and demonstrate, for the first time, that these 2-Cys peroxiredoxins can be determinant for pathogenicity independently of their peroxidase activity.
The metabolism of plant polysaccharides by microbes is crucial to environmental carbon cycling, human nutrition, and industrial processes. This study presents a comprehensive method that integrates carbohydrate-active enzyme (CAZyme) assays, RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), and anaerobic growth screening to analyze how microbes catabolize plant polysaccharides. The researchers applied this method to study the bacterium Clostridium phytofermentans, which ferments plant biomass components including glucans, mannans, xylans, galactans, pectins, and arabinans. The study found that these polysaccharides are fermented with variable efficiencies and that diauxies prioritize metabolism of preferred substrates. Strand-specific RNA-seq revealed that C. phytofermentans responds to polysaccharides by up-regulating specific groups of CAZymes, transporters, and enzymes to metabolize the constituent sugars. Fifty-six up-regulated CAZymes were purified and tested, revealing that most polysaccharides are degraded by multiple enzymes, often from the same family, but with divergent rates, specificities, and cellular localizations. These results advance our understanding of how microbes degrade and metabolize plant biomass, which is important for understanding carbon flow in the environment, promoting healthy human nutrition and preventing disease, and developing industrial processes based on cellulosic bioconversion.
Glanders, a deadly zoonotic disease caused by the gram-negative bacterium Burkholderia mallei, has recently re-emerged in several countries including Asia, the Middle-East, Africa, and South America, despite being eradicated from many Western countries. In 2010-2011, an outbreak of glanders occurred in Bahrain, where over 6,700 horses, 250 donkeys, and three camels were screened for the disease, resulting in 50 horses and one camel testing positive. High-resolution genotyping and comparative whole genome sequencing of B. mallei isolated from infected horses and a camel during this outbreak revealed two distinct clusters, indicating the involvement of multiple B. mallei strains and evidence for repeated importation to the region from similar geographic sources. The close relationship of the Dubai/UAE B. mallei populations to each other may be indicative of a similar geographic origin that has yet to be identified for the infecting strains. The recent emergence of glanders in combination with worldwide horse trading poses a new risk for human infections. The outbreak in Bahrain was caused by two different B. mallei strains, suggesting two independent introductions. Continued surveillance and abatement measures, including routine testing of animals imported from known or potentially endemic regions, are necessary even after all animal cases appear to be cleared.
The role of model organisms in providing valuable observations, despite unclear applicability to distant relatives, is discussed in the context of Arabidopsis thaliana and Brachypodium distachyon. In Arabidopsis, auxin biosynthesis via indole-3-pyruvic acid (IPA) is essential for root development, while in Brachypodium, a T-DNA insertion in the TAR2-LIKE gene (BdTAR2L) results in reduced tryptophan aminotransferase activity, representing a hypomorphic Bdtar2l allele (Bdtar2lhypo). Contrary to expectations, Bdtar2lhypo mutants display dramatically elongated seminal roots due to enhanced cell elongation, associated with increased YUCCA gene expression and elevated auxin levels, rather than reduced auxin levels. This suggests an alternative wiring of auxin-ethylene crosstalk in Brachypodium compared to Arabidopsis, with ethylene potentially inhibiting the rate-limiting step of auxin biosynthesis in an IPA-dependent manner to confer auxin levels that are sub-optimal for root cell elongation. These findings reveal a delicate homeostasis of local auxin and ethylene activity to control cell elongation in Brachypodium roots.
"The 3D organization of chromosomes is crucial for regulating gene expression and cell function. Chromosomes are long and densely packed polymers, and understanding their folding and dynamics is a major challenge due to the need to model and simulate at multiple spatio-temporal scales. Here, a generic strategy is proposed for developing efficient coarse-grained models of self-avoiding polymers on a lattice, accounting for polymer entanglement length and volumic density. This strategy allows for a strong power-law gain in numerical efficiency and provides a systematic way to define reliable coarse-grained null models for chromosomes. The formalism is used to investigate the 3D organization of chromosome 3R in drosophila during one cell cycle, showing that a combination of coarse-graining and a one-parameter block copolymer model integrating epigenomic-driven interactions quantitatively reproduces experimental data. Chromosomes are organized hierarchically during interphase, with each chromosome occupying its own territory, active regions being more central, and inactive regions being more peripheral. Chromosomes are partitioned into topologically associated domains (TADs) that can be easily visualized as consecutive ""squares"" along the diagonal of a 2D contact frequency matrix. These TADs are associated with the local biochemical composition of chromatin, the so-called epigenome, which encodes for gene activity. However, the precise organization of the genome in space is not yet fully understood, and addressing this question represents one of the most exciting challenges of modern biology. Polymer models have been instrumental in simulating and testing different molecular and physical mechanisms and in driving new experiments. An important challenge for such models is to simulate the behavior of long polymer chains during an extended time period. Therefore, the standard strategy used in these approaches is to start from a coarse-grained “null” model for chromatin with few basic interactions and then decorate it with more physical or chemical interactions driven by biological information such as the gene activity or the local epigenomic state."
Toxoplasma gondii is an intracellular parasite that replicates in a parasitophorous vacuole (PV) which does not fuse with host organelles. It has developed a mechanism to acquire nutrients by attracting host organelles to the PV. The parasite specifically exploits host lipid droplets (LD), which are fat storage organelles, for its replication. Host cells depleted of LD or impaired in lipolysis or fatty acid catabolism show reduced Toxoplasma replication. The number of host LD and the expression of LD-associated genes increase in infected cells until the onset of parasite replication, and Toxoplasma is capable of accessing and incorporating lipids from host LD into its own membranes. The intravacuolar network (IVN) of membranes within the PV plays a major role in host LD processing and lipid content release, as mutant parasites impaired in IVN formation or lacking an IVN-localized phospholipase A2 show diminished capacity to salvage lipids from host LD. This study highlights the reliance of Toxoplasma on host LD for its intracellular development and its capability in scavenging neutral lipids from host LD.
The BMP signaling pathway plays a crucial conserved role in dorsal-ventral axis patterning during embryonic development, and in Drosophila, it is mediated by the Mad transcription factor and opposed by the Brinker repressor. A study combining RNA-seq with Mad and Brinker ChIP-seq in Drosophila embryos identified multiple new BMP target genes, including positive and negative regulators of EGF signaling. EGF signaling negatively regulates embryonic BMP-responsive transcription, indicating a self-regulating property within the BMP gene network. The Zelda and Zerknüllt transcription factors establish the resulting expression domain, and insulator proteins, such as BEAF-32, bind to the Mad and Brinker-bound genomic regions. Embryos lacking the BEAF-32 insulator protein show reduced transcription of a peak BMP target gene and a reduction in the number of amnioserosa cells. The BMP pathway specifies epidermal fates during embryonic dorsal-ventral axis patterning in Drosophila. A gradient of Dpp-Scw signaling through the Tkv, Punt, and Saxophone receptor complex results in phosphorylation of the C-terminal tail of the Mad transcription factor, which interacts with Medea, leading to their stabilization in the nucleus. Nuclear pMad is observed around the dorsal midline following extracellular transport of the Dpp-Scw ligand as the first step in gradient formation. The pMad distribution is then refined to a narrower stripe by positive feedback via transcription of Dpp-Scw target genes, including eiger, which encodes a TNF-α ligand. Smad transcription factors are regulated by phosphorylation, dephosphorylation, SUMOylation, and ubiquitination, which controls their subcellular localization, transcriptional activity, and degradation. In summary, the BMP pathway plays a significant role in dorsal-ventral axis patterning during embryonic development, and understanding its transcriptional responses and regulation is essential for interpreting BMP signal interpretation in vertebrates.
The study investigates the systemic alterations of mitochondria in response to mtDNA depletion using network analysis of quantified proteomics data. A data-integrative approach was used to select reliable mt proteins for network analysis, and cICAT quantitative analysis was applied to compare protein abundances in mitochondria isolated from normal and mtDNA-depleted osteosarcoma cells. The results revealed that human mt proteins comprise specific network modules to control unique biological processes in cells exposed to dysfunctional mt states. Furthermore, network clustering suggests that cells respond to pathological conditions by modulating the coordinated expression and transport of mitochondrial proteins. The study provides critical information to gain better understanding of mitochondria function in the cell. The data-integrative approach involved the identification of 1,121 proteins using cICAT analysis, which were classified into three classes: up-regulated, down-regulated, and not significantly changed proteins in ρ0 mitochondria. A systematic data-integrative analysis was then used to evaluate the reliability of mt proteomics data and cluster the identified proteins into the modules of mt protein functional network. The analysis revealed that more links were made within up-regulated or down-regulated proteins than between up- and down-regulated proteins. The shortest path length of proteins connected within intraregulatory links was smaller than that of proteins connected within interregulatory links, indicating that up-regulated and down-regulated proteins tend to cluster themselves and might have distinct functional roles in the protein functional network. The study also identified 13 functional modules that were enriched either within up-regulated or down-regulated protein groups, with five functional groups up-regulated and eight functional groups down-regulated under the dysfunctional ρ0 state. The up-regulated groups were associated with the function of cytosolic ribosome, ribonucleoprotein complex, protein folding on mt surface, DNA repair, and proteolysis, while the down-regulated groups were associated with basal mt functions, such as mitochondrial energy production, metabolism, and protein folding in mitochondria.
The thioredoxin (Trx) mixed disulfide dissociation mechanism has been a topic of debate for over twenty years. A key model used in this study is the complex between Trx and its endogenous substrate, arsenate reductase (ArsC). Through theoretical reactivity analysis, molecular dynamics simulations, and biochemical complex formation experiments with Cys-mutants, it was observed that the conformational changes around the intermediate disulfide bring Cys32Trx in contact with Cys29Trx. Cys32Trx is activated for its nucleophilic attack by hydrogen bonds and is found to be more reactive than Cys82ArsC. Cys32Trx directs its nucleophilic attack on the more susceptible Cys29Trx and not on Cys89ArsC. This multidisciplinary approach provides fresh insights into a universal thiol/disulfide exchange reaction mechanism that results in reduced substrate and oxidized Trx. Thioredoxin (Trx) is a powerful and universal protein disulfide bond oxido-reductase with a very low redox potential. The active site of Trx is at the end of an alpha helix, the α1-helix, and the pKa of the N-terminal active-site cysteine is significantly lower than the pKa of a cysteine in the absence of a structured protein environment, enabling Trx to act as a nucleophile. Endogenous substrates of Trx include arsenate reductases (ArsC) from the thioredoxin-coupled ArsC family. ArsC catalyzes the reduction of arsenate [As(V)] to arsenite [As(III)] and is a key enzyme involved in arsenic detoxification. For the reduction of arsenate, Bs_ArsC and Sa_ArsC combine a phosphatase-like nucleophilic displacement reaction in the active site with a distinct intra-molecular disulfide-bond cascade. The regioselectivity of the disulfide exchange reactions during Trx-ArsC mixed disulfide complex formation and dissociation can be addressed by the soft acids an bases principle (HSAB). This principle states that hard acids prefer to react with hard bases whereas soft acids prefer to interact with soft bases. Disulfide exchange reactions are soft-soft interactions; as such, the softness is used as a reactivity descriptor. The smaller the difference in the local softness (s) between the sulfur atoms, the more preferred the reactivity between the attacking nucleophilic cysteine (Cys29Trx, Cys32Trx and Cys82ArsC) and the accepting electrophilic disulfide (Cys82ArsC-Cys89ArsC and Cys29Trx-Cys89ArsC).
Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease affecting the skin and peripheral nervous system, prevalent in India, Brazil, Indonesia, Bangladesh, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Nepal, and Nigeria. It has been reported for millennia, and is caused by Mycobacterium leprae and M. lepromatosis. Most individuals exposed to the pathogen do not develop the disease, but those who do can present along a broad clinical spectrum from paucibacillary tuberculoid to multibacillary lepromatous disease. Genetic variants of the host and environmental factors contribute to this clinical diversity. Complement receptor 1 (CR1) plays a role in leprosy susceptibility, as it mediates the entrance of mycobacteria into macrophages. A case-control study of Brazilian leprosy patients found that individuals with the most common recombinant haplotype of CR1, harboring rs3849266*T in intron 21 and rs3737002*T in exon 26, presented twice the susceptibility to leprosy. Paucibacillary patients with these variants presented lower sCR1 levels, reducing the anti-inflammatory response. The most ancient haplotype increased susceptibility to the multibacillary clinical form and presented the intronic rs12034383*G allele, associated with higher gene expression. These findings suggest a regulatory role for CR1 polymorphisms on mRNA and sCR1 levels, with haplotype-specific effects increasing susceptibility to leprosy, probably by enhancing parasite phagocytosis and inflammation.
"Metagenomic sequencing of patient samples has the potential to revolutionize the diagnosis of human infections by capturing all DNA or RNA from pathogenic organisms in a human sample. However, accurate characterization of the sequence and identification of pathogens depends on the availability and quality of genomes for comparison. While thousands of genomes are now available, contamination in published genomes increases the risk of falsely identifying the wrong pathogen. A study developed a bioinformatics system to eliminate contamination and low-complexity genomic sequences in the draft genomes of eukaryotic pathogens, resulting in a database of ""clean"" eukaryotic pathogen genomes.Next-generation sequencing (NGS) has emerged as a valuable tool for human pathogen discovery and diagnosis. Traditional techniques for detecting human pathogens are limited, often yielding incorrect or incomplete diagnoses. NGS provides a fast, specific, and relatively unbiased method of capturing the full spectrum of macro- and microorganisms in any sample. NGS has been successful in identifying bacterial infections in fecal specimens, confirming cultured bacterial infections in urine samples, identifying polymicrobial bacterial infections by directly sequencing urine samples, identifying bacterial infections in cerebrospinal fluid, and diagnosing neurologic symptoms with previously unidentified infections.However, the dependence on reference databases for diagnosis presents challenges. The GenBank repository contains genome entries for over 54,000 bacterial organisms but only 1,791 fungi and 389 protozoa. The NCBI RefSeq project, which analyzes and filters Genbank genome sequences, contains more than 37,000 bacterial organisms and more than 7,500 viral organisms but only 251 fungi and 82 protozoa. Microbial genome projects have predominantly focused on bacteria and viruses, resulting in an underrepresentation of eukaryotic pathogens in genomic databases.Contamination and incompleteness in reference databases cause bioinformatics analysis of sequencing reads to yield both false positive and false negative results, decreasing the overall reliability of NGS in pathogen diagnostics. A study presents a new method for eliminating genomic contamination that can be used on both complete and draft reference genomes, yielding a cleaned and filtered eukaryotic pathogen database ready for use in bioinformatics pipelines with decreased false positive and false negative rates."
The Stockholm Atherosclerosis Gene Expression (STAGE) study aimed to identify functionally associated genes important for coronary artery disease (CAD) using whole-genome expression profiles from multiple organs. The study used a two-way clustering approach, first defining tissue clusters based on mRNA signals within one organ, and then clustering patients according to mRNA signals within each tissue cluster to identify signals related to clinical phenotypes. The clinical endpoint was the extent of coronary atherosclerotic lesions as judged from the degree of coronary stenosis. The STAGE study comprised 114 carefully characterized patients, including a compendium of 278 global gene-expression profiles from five CAD-relevant tissues isolated during coronary artery bypass grafting.The first step of the two-way clustering analysis generated 60 tissue clusters representing 4007 RefSeqs/3958 genes. Of these, 15 were identified from the liver gene expression profiles, 11 from skeletal muscle profiles, 20 from visceral fat profiles, and 14 from gene expression profiles of the atherosclerotic arterial wall. Two of the 60 tissue clusters segregated the patients into groups according to the extent of coronary stenosis: one cluster in atherosclerotic arterial wall and one in visceral fat. Assessment of the gene overlap between the atherosclerosis-related clusters in atherosclerotic arterial wall and visceral fat indicated atherosclerosis-related gene activity common to both visceral fat and atherosclerotic arterial wall.To validate the identified tissue clusters relating to coronary atherosclerosis, total RNA samples from atherosclerotic carotid lesions were isolated from patients undergoing carotid stenosis surgery. The first clustering step generated a total of eight tissue clusters representing 904 RefSeqs/894 genes. One of the eight tissue clusters segregated the patients into two groups according to IMT score. Remarkably, 16 of the 55 RefSeqs overlapped with genes in the visceral fat cluster, and 17 with genes in the atherosclerotic arterial wall cluster. Six RefSeqs were in all three clusters, representing a module harboring biological activity important for human atherosclerosis.Gene Ontology and KEGG pathway analysis revealed that 23 of these 39 genes were associated with the transendothelial migration of leukocyte (TEML) pathway with a statistical significant enrichment score. If gene activity in the A-module is casually important for atherosclerosis development, functionally associated single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the vicinity of the 128 A-module genes should be enriched for CAD risk. The study found a 1.8-fold enrichment of CAD risk in the A-module, representing a notable overlap.In conclusion, the STAGE study identified a module of 128 genes, the A-module, that was strongly associated with atherosclerosis severity and enriched with genetic risk for CAD. Parts of the A-module were active in both atherosclerotic arterial wall and visceral fat, and the study identified a putative high-hierarchy regulator of the A-module, LDB2. The findings suggest that the A-module, including LDB2, is important in the regulation of TEML and in atherosclerosis development, indicating a promising therapeutic target for CAD.
"In a study investigating the factors that shape visual perception, it was found that both sensory adaptation and past decisions influence perception in a hierarchical manner. Low-level adaptation pushes perception away from previous stimuli, while decisional traces attract perceptual reports toward recent decisions. These ""continuity fields"" arise from the inertia of decisional templates and not from low-level sensory processes. A two-process model is proposed, where the persistence of readout weights in a decision unit compensates for sensory adaptation, leading to attractive biases in sequential perception. This model suggests that functionally distinct mechanisms operating at different stages promote the differentiation and integration of visual information over time. These findings have implications for our understanding of how perception is not a high-fidelity replica of sensory input, but relies heavily on past experience and short-term dependencies. This is not unique to vision, but permeates a wide range of cognitive processes."
Convergent evolution is the independent evolution of similar traits in species that do not share a common ancestor with those traits. A notable example is the evolution of wings in insects, birds, and mammals. Instances of convergent evolution in locomotory patterns that agree with mechanically optimal solutions are rare. A study found that, across a diverse group of aquatic animals from three different phyla, a mechanically optimal method of swimming with elongated fins has evolved independently at least eight times. The optimal specific wavelength (OSW) for swimming, which maximizes force and speed, is consistently around twenty. This suggests that the laws of physics limit the number of good solutions within reach of evolution, implying that life would take a similar course if it evolved again on Earth or any other habitable planet. The study also found that swimming with the OSW has independently arisen at least eight times in three phyla among the Bilateria. However, the understanding of convergent evolution is held back by a lack of quantitative arguments. Such arguments would expose the links from physical principles to the biological phenomena and help us understand where evolution is likely to converge to the same result or diverge to a wide variety of solutions.
Human papillomaviruses (HPVs) are DNA viruses associated with major human cancers, with high-risk genotypes causing nearly 100% of cervical carcinomas and approximately 25% of head and neck cancers. The HPV infectious life cycle is closely linked to the differentiation state of the stratified epithelium it infects, with progeny virus only made in the terminally differentiating suprabasal compartment. It has been known that HPV must first establish its infection within the basal layer of stratified epithelium, but the reason for this has not been understood. A study using chemical biology approaches found that cell cycle progression through mitosis is critical for HPV infection. Specifically, the recipient cell must enter M phase for HPV infection to take place, with cell cycle inhibitors preventing infection during G1, S, G2, and early M phase, but not late M phase. This finding explains why HPV initially establishes infections in the basal compartment of stratified epithelia, as only this compartment contains cells progressing through the cell cycle. This discovery also has implications for HPV control, as defining a major condition for cell susceptibility to HPV infection provides new leads for developing preventive and therapeutic strategies against HPV infection.
Orofacial clefting is a common birth defect with both genetic and environmental components, and its genetic etiology is incompletely understood. This summary discusses the identification of mutations in the HYAL2 gene as a cause of syndromic orofacial clefting. HYAL2 encodes hyaluronidase 2, which degrades extracellular hyaluronan, a critical component of the developing heart and palatal shelf matrix. Transfection assays showed that the gene mutations destabilize the molecule, reducing HYAL2 protein levels. Affected individuals with HYAL2 mutations have craniofacial abnormalities, including submucosal cleft palate, and some also have cor triatriatum sinister and hearing loss. Hyal2-/- mice also have craniofacial abnormalities, reduced HYAL2 protein levels, and pre-weaning lethality. This study is the first to identify a molecular cause of human cor triatriatum sinister and illustrates the importance of HYAL2 and hyaluronan turnover for normal human and mouse development.
Hypoxic injury to the developing brain is a major cause of neurodevelopmental impairments in premature infants, and can lead to attention-deficit disorder, autism, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, psychiatric disorders, and mental retardation. Despite this, the pathophysiology behind these adverse outcomes is uncertain, and strategies to protect against the effects of prematurity and chronic hypoxic injury to the CNS have been limited. Recent work in the invertebrate Caenorhabditis elegans has shown that hypoxia causes discrete axon pathfinding errors in certain interneurons and motorneurons, but it is unknown whether similar pathfinding errors occur in a vertebrate nervous system. A study in zebrafish found that developmental hypoxic injury disrupts pathfinding of forebrain neurons, leading to errors in which commissural axons fail to cross the midline. These pathfinding defects result from activation of the hypoxia-inducible transcription factor (hif1) pathway and are mimicked by chemical inducers of the hif1 pathway or by expression of constitutively active hif1α. Further, blocking transcriptional activation by hif1α helped prevent the guidance defects. The receptor ephA4a is expressed in a pattern complementary to the misrouting axons, and ephrinB2a, a target of hif1 pathway activation, mediates the pathfinding errors via a reverse-signaling mechanism. Magnesium sulfate, used to improve neurodevelopmental outcomes in preterm births, protects against pathfinding errors by preventing upregulation of ephrinB2a. These results demonstrate that evolutionarily conserved genetic pathways regulate connectivity changes in the CNS in response to hypoxia, and they support a potential neuroprotective role for magnesium.
Filarial nematodes have a mutualistic relationship with Wolbachia endosymbionts, and depleting Wolbachia can cause profound defects in nematode development, fertility, and viability. This has potential as a treatment for filarial diseases. Whole mount confocal microscopy shows that Wolbachia depletion rapidly induces extensive apoptosis in adult germlines and embryos, as well as in uninfected cells, and this corresponds with the timing of arrested development, long-term sterilization, and eventual death of adult worms. In B. malayi, Wolbachia depletion causes pyknosis, fragmented oogoniae nuclei, and abnormal muscle quadrants in intrauterine microfilariae. TUNEL assays reveal apoptosis in the germline of ovaries and embryos in treated females, but not in control females. Most blastomeres of TUNEL-positive embryos from treated females are apoptotic, and most 'stretched' microfilariae from treated females are entirely undergoing apoptosis. In B. malayi males, which lack Wolbachia in the germline, there are a small number of apoptotic events in irregular patches in the germline of treated males, suggesting that the Wolbachia in the chords play a role in preventing apoptosis in the male germline. The Wolbachia present in the female lateral chords may therefore have a more important role than in males, and their contribution may be crucial to avoid apoptosis during female germline and embryonic development. The loss of Wolbachia in somatic tissues does not lead to apoptosis of the lateral chord cells, but the cortical microtubule network is disrupted, which may impair the chords' function in supplying nutrients or critical metabolites to the germline and developing embryos. In vitro doxycycline treatment causes apoptosis in germ cells, during fertilization, and in young embryos, independent of any mammalian host factors. Apoptosis appears to be cumulative, with more and more embryos affected as development progresses. In adult O. volvulus obtained from a field trial of doxycycline in Cameroon, numerous apoptotic-positive cells were observed in germline or early embryonic cells and in somatic nuclei of the surrounding uterus within adult female parasites. Other uterine embryonic stages were absent due to the blockage of embryogenesis observed following doxycycline therapy. In contrast, samples collected from placebo treated patients showed only very occasional evidence of apoptotic-cells in the different embryonic developmental stages in utero and no evidence of apoptosis in the uterine wall. The observed increase in apoptosis is due to the loss of Wolbachia rather than a direct effect of tetracycline treatment. The long and gradual decline in the viability of adult worms suggests that the event is not a global consequence of Wolbachia depletion. The removal of adult worms is required in lymphatic filariasis where the adult stage is responsible for disease pathogenesis of damage to the lymphatics. In both cases, the permanent sterilization of adult worms will deliver important benefits for the interruption of parasite transmission via blood feeding insect vectors. Regulation of host cell apoptosis is common to many intracellular bacteria. A unique feature of Wolbachia’s anti-apoptotic effect is that there is no correlation between Wolbachia-populated cells and cells that undergo apoptosis upon Wolbachia depletion. The non-cell autonomous behavior implies that Wolbachia-infected cells suppress apoptosis in distant non-neighboring uninfected cells. The source of the Wolbachia-infected cells, which are capable of this action-at-distance apoptosis suppression and when in development this occurs remains unclear. It is likely that the female lateral chords are primarily responsible for apoptotic rates in the oocytes, embryos, and intrauterine 'stretched' microfilariae. Further evidence to support this view comes from observations of released microfilariae. Although microfilariae recovered from tetracycline treated animals did show an increase in the proportion of parasites with medium and high levels of apoptosis, this was not as extensive as observed with intrauterine 'stretched' microfilariae. The mechanism by which Wolbachia suppresses apoptosis is unclear, but studies of the influence of other intracellular bacteria on host cell apoptosis demonstrate this may be achieved either by direct targeting of the apoptotic signaling cascade or indirectly by influencing host metabolism. Potential molecular candidates from Wolbachia include Wolbachia surface protein or lipoproteins such as wBmPAL, which can inhibit apoptosis of human neutrophils.
"Influenza A viruses (IAVs) are negative-strand RNA viruses with eight gene segments, and IAV subtypes are determined by the virus surface glycoproteins hemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA). Wild birds, particularly those living in wetlands and aquatic environments, maintain a large IAV genetic pool. Pigs have both avian-like and human-like receptors on the epithelial cells of their respiratory tissues, making them a potential ""mixing vessel"" for generating pandemic IAV strains through genetic reassortment between avian and swine or human IAVs. Genetic reassortment is a complicated process, and how a transmissible reassortant emerges in swine is not well understood. A study investigated the role of tissue tropism in selecting transmissible reassortants from various reassortants generated in pigs co-infected with avian and swine IAVs. The study found that during mixed infections of avian and swine IAVs, genetic reassortments are likely to occur in the lower respiratory tract, and tissue tropism is an important factor selecting for a transmissible reassortant."
The Saccharomyces cerevisiae polo-like kinase Cdc5 plays a role in adaptation to the DNA damage checkpoint, which allows cells to escape cell-cycle arrest and re-enter the cell division cycle in the presence of persistent or irreparable DNA damage. The precise mechanism by which Cdc5 promotes adaptation is unclear, but it is dose-dependent and its overexpression results in faster adaptation. Cdc5 acts downstream of checkpoint sensor localization and disrupts Rad9 function without blocking Mec1/Tel1 phosphorylation of Rad9. High levels of Cdc5 specifically block the ability of Rad9 to promote Rad53 auto-phosphorylation without affecting the make-up of the Rad9-Rad53 complex. Cdc5's kinase activity is necessary for its ability to inactivate checkpoint signaling. CDC5 works independently of the PP2C-type phosphatases Ptc2 and Ptc3. Cdc5 has been shown to target MIH1, the budding yeast orthologue of the fission yeast cdc25 phosphatase, but MIH1 deletion has no effect on the ability of Cdc5 overexpression to drive Rad53 dephosphorylation. Overexpression of CDC5 results in the premature release of the Cdc14 phosphatase, which may contribute to the loss of Rad53 phosphorylation. However, overexpression of CDC14 does not disrupt the damage-dependent interaction of Rad9 and Rad53. An in situ autophosphorylation assay (ISA) can be used to further investigate the molecular mechanism of adaptation. Both exogenous pressures and normal cellular processes place stresses on the genome that commonly result in DNA lesions, such as DNA adducts, nicks, and breaks. A robust checkpoint response has evolved to quickly react to the presence of damaged DNA and maintain the integrity of the genome for the next generation of cells.
In this study, the focus is on the persistent, irregular alternations that occur after the first perceptual switch in auditory streaming, where a sequence of higher and lower frequency tones is perceived as either a single integrated stream or as two segregated streams. A neuromechanistic model is developed, taking into account neurophysiological studies of auditory streaming and general models of perceptual bistability. The model features a tonotopic organization with three units that receive input from A1, the primary auditory cortex, and incorporate neuronal responses of pre-competition stages. The perceptual interpretations are classified through criteria on the firing patterns, such as the dominance of the central unit that receives input from both the A and B tones, which corresponds to the integrated percept. A dynamical systems framework is used with firing rate-based neuronal competition mediated by mutual inhibition, adaptation, and noise. The inclusion of recurrent NMDA-like excitation allows for some neuronal memory that links each tone and each triplet to the next. The model is motivated from physiological studies of auditory streaming and general models of perceptual bistability and its development is done concurrently with the design and execution of experiments, allowing for a deeper understanding of the process.
A recent study has explored the use of rhodamine B, a thiol-reactive fluorescent dye, to mark male Aedes aegypti mosquitoes for rapid assessment of their competitiveness in the wild during field releases. The study found that rhodamine B can be administered to male mosquitoes via sugar-feeding, effectively staining their body tissue and seminal fluid. This marking method has several advantages over traditional marking techniques, such as dyes, paints, trace elements, and radioactive isotopes. It is less expensive and time-consuming than PCR and stable isotope semen labelling methods, and it has minimal fitness costs, unlike fluorescent dusts and other marking methods that can increase mortality, decrease mobility, and affect the sensory organs of mosquitoes.The study found that all concentrations of rhodamine B (0.1%, 0.2%, 0.4%, and 0.8%) produced >95% transfer to females and successful body marking after 4 days of feeding, with 0.4% and 0.8% solutions producing the longest-lasting body marking. Importantly, rhodamine B marking had no effect on male mating competitiveness, and proof-of-principle field releases demonstrated successful transfer of marked seminal fluid to females under field conditions and recapture of marked males.These results suggest that rhodamine B could be a useful evaluation method for male-based SIT/IIT control strategies and a viable body marking technique for male-based mark-release-recapture experiments. As a standalone method for use in mating competitiveness assays, rhodamine B marking is less expensive and less time-consuming than other methods, such as PCR and female fertility assays.The study of mosquito-borne diseases relies on knowledge of key entomological parameters, such as dispersal range, blood-feeding rates, population size, survival, and length of gonotrophic cycles. Traditionally, much of this information has been obtained through mark-release-recapture (MRR) field experiments, during which the target insect is collected from laboratory colonies or from the field, marked, released into the field, and recaptured at given time and distance intervals after their release. However, MRR experiments have mostly focused on assessing female dispersal and survival, leaving much less known of male survival, dispersal, and population dynamics in general.The development of alternative marking methods that are cheap, easy to detect, and have minimal fitness costs is needed. Rhodamine B marking could be a promising alternative to traditional marking methods, providing a less expensive, less time-consuming, and more effective way of assessing male mating competitiveness in the wild. This information is crucial for understanding disease transmission dynamics and for determining the extent of control measures necessary to interrupt transmission.
Hematophagous mosquitos and ticks avoid the host's hemostatic system by expressing enzyme inhibitors that target proteolytic reactions in the coagulation and complement cascades. These inhibitors are mainly found in the salivary glands, with a few identified in the midgut. Boophilin, a 2-Kunitz multifunctional inhibitor found in the tick Rhipicephalus microplus, targets thrombin, elastase, and kallikrein. It has been expressed in HEK293 cells and purified, and studies have shown that it behaves as a non-competitive inhibitor of thrombin, blocking platelet aggregation, fibrin formation, and clot-bound thrombin in vitro. Additionally, Boophilin inhibits FXIa, preventing FIX activation, and targets the contact pathway by inhibiting kallikrein activity and reciprocal activation. It also abrogates cathepsin G- and plasmin-induced platelet aggregation and partially affects elastase-mediated cleavage of TFPI. Boophilin has been found to inhibit carotid artery occlusion in vivo triggered by FeCl3 and promote bleeding according to the mice tail transection method. Through inhibition of several enzymes involved in proteolytic cascades and cell activation, Boophilin plays a major role in keeping the midgut microenvironment at low hemostatic and inflammatory tonus, allowing ticks to successfully digest a blood meal which is critical for metabolism and egg development. Boophilin is the first tick midgut FXIa anticoagulant also found to inhibit thrombosis. Hematophagous insects and ticks express protease inhibitors in different tissues and organs, which belong to various families of enzyme inhibitors, such as Kunitz, Kazal, Serpin, Cathepsin, and Trypsin Inhibitor-Like (TIL) domains, among others. These inhibitors display unique specificity and high-affinity binding for coagulation factors or components of the complement cascade and affect immune cells, endothelial cells, and platelet functions.
Mammalian dosage compensation is achieved through X-chromosome inactivation and up-regulation of X-linked genes in both sexes. In human triploid cells, X-linked gene expression does not strictly respond to autosomal factors, nor is it adjusted to achieve a perfect balance. Triploid cells with two active X chromosomes show a basic doubling of X-linked gene expression, while those with a single active X have adjusted X-linked gene expression, presumably by an epigenetic mechanism sensitive to the ratio between active X chromosomes and autosomal sets. This epigenetic mechanism may act on a subset of genes whose expression dosage in relation to autosomal expression is critical. Studies of triploid cells can contribute to understanding the underlying mechanisms of X up-regulation and the potential existence of an autosomal counting factor.
The human fungal pathogen Candida albicans can exist as a harmless commensal or an opportunistic pathogen, with its pathogenicity linked to its ability to switch between yeast and hyphal forms. Although many factors involved in this transformation have been identified, how they are regulated remains unclear. Recent studies have investigated morphogenetic control by post-translational phosphorylation, specifically focusing on coordinated control by the cyclin-dependent kinase Cdc28. The Fkh2 transcription factor has been identified as a regulatory target of both Cdc28 and the cell wall biosynthesis kinase Cbk1, with a diverse pool of Fkh2 phospho-isoforms observed in stationary phase yeast cells. During hyphal induction, the phosphorylation profile of Fkh2 is transformed before reverting to the yeast profile. This transformation is dependent on Cdc28 and Cbk1, with mutations in phosphorylation sites altering the yeast phosphorylation profile and abrogating the hyphal profile. The hyphal phosphorylation profile is required for the expression of genes involved in pathogenesis, host interaction, and biofilm formation. Fkh2 interacts with the chromatin modifier Pob3 in a phosphorylation-dependent manner, providing a possible mechanism for the regulation of its specificity. This novel cell cycle-independent phospho-regulatory event subverts a key component of the cell cycle machinery to a role in the switch from commensalism to pathogenicity.
The egress of newly assembled herpesvirus particles from infected cells involves the host secretory pathway and viral components. A live-cell fluorescence microscopy method was developed to visualize the final transport and exocytosis of pseudorabies virus (PRV) particles in non-polarized epithelial cells using total internal reflection fluorescence (TIRF) microscopy. This method revealed that individual virus particles travel to the plasma membrane inside small, acidified secretory vesicles, which undergo fast, directional transport directly to the site of exocytosis near patches of LL5β, part of a complex that anchors microtubules to the plasma membrane. Rab6a, Rab8a, and Rab11a, key regulators of the plasma membrane-directed secretory pathway, are present on the virus secretory vesicle. After exocytosis, particles remain tightly confined on the outer cell surface. These findings provide new insights into the mechanisms of alpha herpesvirus egress and propose an integrated model that links together the intracellular transport pathways and exocytosis mechanisms that mediate alpha herpesvirus egress.
The human influenza virus, which includes types A, B, and C, is a significant public health threat. Types A (H1N1) and (H3N2) and type B are currently circulating in the human population. These viruses frequently undergo antigenic changes due to mutations or reassortment of the hemagglutinin (HA) gene, leading to the emergence of antigenic variants that cause varying degrees of morbidity and mortality. Accurate and timely estimation of the mortality burden caused by these variants is crucial for developing cost-effective control and prevention strategies. However, current approaches rely on intensive and unbiased influenza surveillance, which can be limited and prone to bias.In this study, the researchers proposed a novel host-virus interaction model and established a positive correlation between the excess mortalities caused by viral strains of distinct antigenicity and their antigenic distances to their previous strains for each subtype of seasonal influenza viruses. They further developed a method to rapidly assess the mortality burden of influenza A (H1N1) virus by accurately predicting the antigenic distance between A (H1N1) strains. This rapid estimation of influenza mortality burden for new seasonal strains should help formulate a cost-effective response for influenza control and prevention.The researchers found that the extent of antigenic variation of an influenza virus is the most important factor that determines its mortality burden. This relationship is valid for all three human influenza viruses analyzed: A (H1N1), A (H3N2), and B. They estimated the excess mortality caused by a virus based on its virus isolation rate, which reflects the virus's ability to infect and cause disease. The combined three subtype-associated excess mortality inferred based on virus isolation rate correlates significantly with the influenza-associated excess mortality calculated from reported mortality data.Overall, this study highlights the importance of antigenic variation in determining the mortality burden of influenza viruses and the potential of using virus isolation rate as a predictor of excess mortality. However, the correlation coefficients have large confidence intervals, leading to a relatively high standard deviation of the coefficient in the regression model and the large confidence interval of the prediction. Therefore, the results need to be further validated once data from additional seasons become available.
Leishmania parasites exist in two forms, promastigotes and amastigotes, which inhabit different host environments. Promastigotes are elongated and extracellular, found in insect vectors, while amastigotes are round-shaped and enclosed in phagolysosome-like parasitophorous vacuoles (PVs) of infected mammalian host cells. Two Leishmania species, L. amazonensis and L. major, exhibit different PV behaviors: L. amazonensis amastigotes occupy large PVs that may contain many parasites, while L. major amastigotes lodge in small, tight PVs. This study investigated whether PVs of these Leishmania species can fuse with each other. Macrophages were infected with L. amazonensis amastigotes and then superinfected with L. major amastigotes or promastigotes. Results showed that PVs containing L. major promastigotes fused with pre-established L. amazonensis PVs, but L. major amastigotes did not share the same vacuoles with L. amazonensis. L. major promastigotes remained motile and multiplied in chimeric vacuoles but did not differentiate into amastigotes. L. major destruction or differentiation required a species-specific PV, and mechanisms for this requirement remain undetermined. These findings contribute to understanding Leishmania interactions and PV fusion mechanisms.
Schistosomiasis is a significant public health problem affecting 200 million people in developing countries. Despite the existence of the drug praziquantel, schistosomiasis continues to spread, and an anti-schistosome vaccine is needed. Bovines contribute up to 90% of the environmental egg contamination for Schistosoma japonicum infection in China and are also important reservoirs in the Philippines. A transmission blocking vaccine for bovines could significantly reduce schistosomiasis transmission. Schistosomes utilize insulin receptors (SjIRs) to regulate glucose metabolism and egg production. A study focused on SjIR1 and SjIR2 of S. japonicum, showing that human insulin binds to the L1 subdomain of recombinant SjIR1 and SjIR2. RNA interference was used to knock down SjIRs in adult S. japonicum, resulting in reduced transcription of downstream genes associated with glucose metabolism and schistosome fecundity. A significant decrease in glucose uptake was observed in SjIR-knockdown worms. Vaccine/challenge experiments showed that rSjLD1 and rSjLD2 depressed female growth, intestinal granuloma density, and faecal egg production, emphasizing the potential of SjIRs as veterinary transmission blocking vaccine candidates. Further studies are needed to fully elucidate the biological functions of SjIRs in schistosomes.
Primate lentivirus Nef is crucial for sustained virus replication in vivo and accelerated progression to AIDS. While studying the mechanism by which Nef increases the infectivity of cell-free virions, a functional link between Nef and Env was investigated. Nef confers resistance to 2F5 and 4E10, two potent neutralizing monoclonal antibodies (nAbs) that target the membrane proximal external region (MPER) of TMgp41, but does not affect HIV-1 neutralization by MPER-specific nAb Z13e1, by the peptide inhibitor T20, nor by a panel of nAbs and other reagents targeting gp120. This resistance was observed across a diverse range of HIV-1 and SIV isolates, as well as with HIV-1 virions bearing Env from CCR5- and CXCR4-tropic viruses, clade B and C viruses, or primary isolates. Nef's myristoylation is required for this activity, which is genetically separable from other Nef functions such as enhancing virus infectivity and downregulating CD4. Glycosylated-Gag from MoMLV can substitute for Nef in conferring resistance to 2F5 and 4E10, indicating that this activity is conserved in a retrovirus that does not encode Nef. These findings suggest that Nef alters MPER recognition in the context of the virion membrane, protecting lentiviruses from one of the most broadly-acting classes of neutralizing antibodies, with important implications for anti-HIV-1 immunity and AIDS pathogenesis.
"The RNA polymerase II (Pol II) is a crucial eukaryotic enzyme that synthesizes messenger RNA using a DNA template. Despite extensive studies, it is still unclear whether the ""secondary channel"" is the only route for NTP to reach the Pol II active site or if the ""main channel"" could be an alternative. Crystallographic structures of Pol II have been helpful in understanding the structural basis of transcription, but the conformation of the unpaired non-template DNA part of the full transcription bubble (TB) remains unknown. A study built a structural model of Pol II with a complete transcription bubble and used Molecular Dynamics (MD) simulations to understand NTP entry pathways. The results suggest that the secondary channel is the major route for NTP entry during Pol II transcription, with a higher percentage of MD conformations containing enough space for NTP loading through the secondary channel compared to the main channel. The main channel's NTP diffusion is disfavored by electrostatic repulsion between the NTP and the negatively charged backbones of nucleotides in the non-template DNA strand. A structural model of Pol II elongation complex with the complete transcription bubble is crucial for investigating NTP loading routes, and MD simulations of a structural model of Pol II with complete transcription bubble show that nucleotides observed in crystal structures are stable, while those for which the electronic density is absent show more flexibility. The transcription bubble contains 15 nucleotides, and MD conformational ensemble analysis reveals potential diffusion pathways through both the main channel and secondary channel. However, the probability of finding pathways for NTP to the i+1 active site along the secondary channel is more than twice that of finding the pathways to the i+2 binding site along the main channel, making the secondary channel the major NTP entry route."
This passage discusses a study on visual object recognition, specifically how contextual inputs affect the sensitivity to image features and the perception of a target bar. The study found that human observers were more likely to perceive a target bar when the context had a weaker contrast rather than a stronger one. This was due to two ways context influences perception: first, by biasing observers' prior belief that a target should be present according to visual grouping principles, and second, by biasing observers' internal model of the likely input contrasts caused by a target bar. The neural representation of inputs is first encoded in early visual stages, such as the retina and primary visual cortex (V1), where input features are encoded by the activities of retinal and V1 neurons with various input sensitivities. The brain then infers the possible objects in the 3-D scene causing the 2-D input images. Perception is the result of revealing a cause to visual awareness, while inference is the process of assigning a probability to each cause. The study found that contextual inputs significantly affect the speed and accuracy of object recognition and the color appearance of an image patch. Additionally, contextual influences are present in the input encoding, such as the sensitivity of a V1 neuron to an input bar, which can be increased by contextual bars outside the receptive field of the neuron. The study used stimuli composed of several bars and probed perceptual biases by a yes–no design, revealing how visual contexts influence the perception of the target bar through a Bayesian inference and decision process.
Lectin-like bacteriotoxic proteins, found in various plant-associated bacteria, can selectively kill closely related species, including certain phytopathogens like Pseudomonas syringae and Xanthomonas. The crystal structure of LlpABW, the prototype lectin-like bacteriocin from Pseudomonas putida, consists of two monocot mannose-binding lectin (MMBL) domains and a C-terminal β-hairpin extension. The C-terminal MMBL domain (C-domain) has a sugar-binding pocket crucial for bactericidal activity, while the N-terminal MMBL domain (N-domain) determines target specificity. These two structurally similar domains have evolved separately for dedicated functions in target recognition and bacteriotoxicity. Bacteriocins are widespread in microorganisms as a strategy for niche colonization, with various mechanisms and specificities. In the genus Pseudomonas, R- and F-type pyocins are multi-subunit protein complexes, while S-type pyocins share structural and functional features with Escherichia coli colicins. Putidacin A (LlpABW), identified in Pseudomonas putida BW11M1, represents a class of Pseudomonas-specific antibacterial proteins not related to any known bacteriocin. Additional llpA-like genes encoding functional bacteriocins have been identified in the biocontrol strain Pseudomonas fluorescens Pf-5, the phytopathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae 642, and two Xanthomonas pathovars, extending the occurrence of this type of protein as a genus-specific killer protein.
The genomic GC-content of bacteria varies significantly, ranging from less than 20% to over 70%. This variation is generally attributed to differences in the pattern of mutation between bacteria. However, a study examining patterns of synonymous polymorphism in 149 bacterial species found a large excess of synonymous GC→AT mutations over AT→GC mutations segregating in all but the most AT-rich bacteria, across a broad range of phylogenetically diverse species. This excess of GC→AT mutations is inconsistent with mutation bias and is likely due to selection to increase synonymous GC-content in many species. Since synonymous GC-content is highly correlated to genomic GC-content, this suggests that there is selection on genomic base composition in many bacteria. The reasons for the variation in genomic GC-content are controversial and may be due to a combination of factors including mutation bias, natural selection, genome size, lifestyle, environment, aerobiosis, nitrogen utilization, and temperature.
The expansion of CAG/CTG repeats in certain genes is responsible for various diseases, including Huntington's disease (HD) and myotonic dystrophy 1. These repeats are unstable in specific somatic tissues, which accelerates disease progression. However, the mechanisms behind repeat instability are complex and not fully understood. A study investigating the relationship between CAG instability, chromatin structure, and transcription at the HD locus used R6/1 and R6/2 HD transgenic mouse lines, which express a similar transgene but integrated at different sites. The study found that instability rates were increased in R6/2 tissues, and high transgene expression levels and chromatin accessibility correlated with increased CAG instability in these mice. Additionally, transgene mRNA and H3K4 trimethylation at the HD locus were increased, whereas H3K9 dimethylation was reduced in R6/2 tissues relative to R6/1 matched-tissues. However, the levels of transgene expression and these specific histone marks were similar in the striatum and cerebellum, irrespective of mouse line. The levels of elongating RNA Pol II at the HD locus, but not the initiating form of RNA Pol II, were tissue-specific and correlated with CAG instability levels. H3K36 trimethylation, a mark associated with transcription elongation, was specifically increased at the HD locus in the striatum and not in the cerebellum. These findings suggest that transcription modulates somatic CAG instability in vivo and that transcription elongation is regulated in a tissue-dependent manner, contributing to tissue-selective CAG instability.
Research on Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs) has increased, but significant need-gaps in diagnostic and treatment tools remain. An analysis of bibliometric data from published research reveals that from 26,833 publications worldwide on 11 NTDs, 1,187 (4.4%) had at least one German author affiliation. Of these, 972 publications were processed for the five most published-about diseases, extracting 4,007 individual authors and 863 research institutions to construct co-author networks. Majority of co-authors outside Germany were from high-income countries and Brazil, with collaborations with partners on the African continent remaining scattered. NTD research within Germany was distributed among 220 research institutions. Identifying barriers and expanding Germany’s research activities towards NTDs is necessary as the share of NTD publications with German affiliations is approximately half of its share in other fields of medical research. A geospatial analysis of research collaborations with partners abroad can support decisions to strengthen research capacity, particularly in low- and middle-income countries.
Chagas disease is a significant vector-borne disease in Latin America, with a high burden of infection and at-risk population. Although regional initiatives have successfully controlled domiciliated vectors in many regions, non-domiciliated vectors continue to pose a significant transmission risk. A mathematical model was developed to predict the temporal variations in abundance of non-domiciliated vectors inside houses using demographic parameters estimated from field data in the Yucatan peninsula, Mexico. The model accurately fitted and predicted field data in the absence and presence of insecticide spraying. Pyrethroid spraying was found effective when 50 mg/m2 were applied yearly within a two-month period matching the immigration season, reducing bug abundance by over 80%. However, larger doses or more frequent interventions did not significantly improve this reduction. Insect screens consistently reduced bug abundance proportionally to the reduction of the vector immigration rate. Control of non-domiciliated vectors can hardly be achieved by insecticide spraying, due to the need for yearly application and accurate understanding of the temporal pattern of immigration. Insect screens offer an effective and sustainable alternative for controlling non-domiciliated vectors, and may be part of multi-disease interventions for the integrated control of neglected vector-borne diseases.
"This passage discusses a study examining how people's preferences, or ""tastes,"" can change based on observing the preferences of others, specifically in the context of temporal discounting, which quantifies the extent to which a person prefers a temporally proximal reward over a distal one. The study found evidence for ""taste uncertainty"" and ""Bayesian taste updating,"" meaning that people's preferences are uncertain and that they update their preferences based on observing others in a way that is consistent with Bayesian decision theory. The study used a task in which participants made a series of temporal discounting decisions, then observed the choices of a simulated participant with a different discounting parameter, and then made more choices for themselves. The results showed that participants' choices were influenced by the choices of the simulated participant, and that this effect was more pronounced for participants who were more uncertain about their own preferences. These findings have implications for understanding how social influences can shape decision-making and for clinical interventions targeting maladaptive discounting."
Rice and Arabidopsis have different root growth regulation mechanisms, with ethylene and auxin acting synergistically in Arabidopsis but unclear interaction in rice. A study found that ethylene-inhibited root elongation in rice is dependent on YUC-based auxin biosynthesis. The transcriptional activation of OsEIL1 on the expression of YUC8/REIN7 and IPA-dependent auxin biosynthesis is required for this process. Ethylene induces YUC8/REIN7 expression and promotes auxin accumulation in roots. The rein7-1 mutant, with a truncated YUC8/REIN7 at its C-terminus, reduces auxin biosynthesis and ethylene sensitivity in roots. This study reveals the interaction between ethylene and auxin in rice seedling primary root elongation, enhancing the understanding of ethylene signaling in rice. Root systems play essential roles in water and nutrient absorption and plant body support. Improved root architecture is crucial for productivity and water extraction under water-limited stress. Rice is a vital crop worldwide, with fibrous root systems composed of a primary root, lateral roots, and adventitious roots. Root development is affected by diverse endogenous and exogenous factors, including ethylene and auxin. The YUC pathway is the most important pathway for auxin biosynthesis, with YUC family flavin-containing monooxygenases as key enzymes. YUC catalyzes the conversion of IPA to IAA, a rate-limiting step in the IPA pathway. Ethylene is known to inhibit root elongation through interaction with auxin. In rice, ethylene promotes coleoptile growth but inhibits root elongation, a double response. The double response is common in etiolated rice seedlings and primarily mediated by the ethylene signaling pathway. YUC-based auxin biosynthesis is required for ethylene-inhibited root growth in rice. The rein7-1 mutant, with a truncated YUC8/REIN7, shows insensitivity to ethylene in root elongation but normal coleoptile growth. The rein7-1 mutant confers salt adaptation without compromising yield. REIN7 encodes a flavin-containing monooxygenase required for the biosynthesis of auxin and corresponds to YUC8, involved in ethylene-inhibited root elongation. The mutation of YUC8/REIN7 locus is responsible for the rein7-1 mutant phenotype. The C-terminal region of YUC8/REIN7 is required for ethylene-inhibited root elongation. YUC8/REIN7 is an auxin biosynthesis gene, and the C-terminus is important for its function. YUC8/REIN7 mainly catalyzes conversion of IPA to IAA in the IPA pathway, and its C-terminus is important for enzymatic activity.
The long noncoding RNA, MALAT1, is upregulated in cancer tissues and its elevated expression is associated with hyper-proliferation. This study found that MALAT1 levels are regulated during the cell cycle and that its depletion leads to cell cycle defects, particularly in G1/S and mitotic progression. These defects are sensitive to p53 levels, indicating that p53 is a major downstream mediator of MALAT1 activity. MALAT1-depleted cells also display reduced expression of B-MYB, an oncogenic transcription factor involved in G2/M progression, due to altered binding of splicing factors on B-MYB pre-mRNA and aberrant alternative splicing. The eukaryotic genome harbors many noncoding RNAs, including small and long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs). LncRNAs are involved in several crucial functions, such as acting as a scaffold for proteins, guiding proteins to specific chromatin sites, influencing local chromatin architecture, and regulating transcription and RNA processing events. The human genome encodes approximately 15,000-17,000 potential lncRNAs, but the function of less than 2% of them is clearly elucidated. A recent study demonstrated cell cycle-regulated expression of several lncRNAs in mammalian cells, with over 200 lncRNAs encoded in close proximity to more than 50 protein-coding genes involved in cell cycle regulation. The expression of these lncRNAs did not correlate with the expression of the nearby cell cycle genes, indicating that they may not necessarily regulate each other. However, several studies have demonstrated the involvement of lncRNAs in regulating the expression of cell cycle genes in cis. For example, the ANRIL lncRNA is located upstream of the tumor suppressor locus encoding p16INK4A and p15INK4B, and its mutation or depletion results in the loss of p16INK4A and p15INK4B repression. An lncRNA transcribed from the 5′regulatory region of Cyclin D1 recruits TLS, an RNA-binding protein, to the CCND1 gene in response to DNA damage, resulting in the transcription repression of CCND1. A large number of lncRNAs display deregulated expression in human cancer samples and are regulated by oncogenic or tumor suppressor pathways. The HOTAIR lncRNA, which is known to regulate the expression of HOX gene clusters, is highly induced in breast cancer samples and its elevated expression has been correlated with metastasis and death. Recent studies have also demonstrated the involvement of lncRNAs in the p53 gene regulatory pathway. For example, lincRNA-p21 is activated by p53 and serves as a repressor in the p53-dependent transcriptional network, and PANDA is transcribed from the p21 (CDKN1A) promoter and negatively regulates the expression of pro-apoptotic genes upon DNA damage, thereby controlling apoptosis. MEG3, an imprinted lncRNA, induces accumulation of p53 by negatively regulating MDM2 expression. The lncRNA MALAT1 is upregulated in several solid tumors and its differential expression is linked with cancer metastasis and recurrence. MALAT1 is a highly abundant nucleus-restricted RNA that localizes to nuclear speckles and interacts with several pre-mRNA splicing factors, modulating the cellular distribution and activity of SR splicing factors and influencing alternative splicing of pre-mRNAs. Previous studies have shown that transient overexpression of MALAT1 enhanced cellular proliferation in cell lines and tumor formation in nude mice, while depletion of MALAT1 in tumor cells reduced tumorigenicity. A recent study suggested the involvement of MALAT1 in regulating the E2F1 transcription factor activity, which is a crucial determinant of cell cycle progression and tumorigenesis. These results indicate that MALAT1 has a pro-proliferative function, but the mechanism has yet to be identified.
HIV-1 transmission from men to women primarily occurs through vaginal intercourse, with semen playing a crucial role as it contains factors that can either facilitate or inhibit HIV-1 transmission. One such factor is Interleukin-7 (IL-7), a cytokine present in high concentrations in semen, which has been shown to enhance HIV-1 transmission and dissemination by preventing apoptosis and promoting the proliferation of CD4+ T cells. IL-7 facilitates the replication of various HIV-1 isolates in lymphoid tissues, with the enhancement being dose-dependent and consistent for cervico-vaginal tissues from different donors. A short exposure of tissue to IL-7 is sufficient to enhance HIV-1 replication, and it does not need to be present during the entire culture period. IL-7 affects the size of the fraction of tissue CD4+ T cells by decreasing the incidence of CD4+ T cell apoptosis and increasing the expression of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 in HIV-1-infected CD4+ T cells. The anti-apoptotic effect of IL-7 is not limited to HIV-1-infected CD4+ T cells but is also observed in uninfected CD4+ T cells. Overall, IL-7 plays a crucial role in modulating T cell development and peripheral naïve and memory T cell homeostasis, and its presence in semen may contribute to the survival of the founder pool of HIV-1-infected cells in the cervico-vaginal mucosa at the initial stage of infection, promoting local expansion and dissemination of HIV infection.
The evolutionary origins of genetic robustness, or the invariance of phenotypes in the face of perturbations, are still a subject of debate. These perturbations can be genetic alterations or environmental variations. Genetic robustness allows a biological system to continue functioning following mutations, while environmental robustness buffers against external changes. Genetic robustness can be studied at various levels of biological organization, and environmental robustness differs greatly across bacterial species. The evolution of a new metabolic pathway can promote both environmental and genetic robustness in a species. A study of 487 bacterial organisms found that the buffering capacity of metabolic networks, or the network's ability to buffer mutations via the existence of alternative pathways, can be predicted using topology-driven approaches. These methods unravel topological, network genetic robustness (NGR), which is distinct from robustness that arises from the presence of alternative genes. The study found that NGR is positively correlated with network size, connectivity, and centrality, showing that an array of topological properties is related to network robustness. The robustness of reactions is also associated with evolutionary conservation, with non-essential reactions tending to be more central and highly connected than essential reactions. The distribution of reaction categories within major metabolic classes reveals that nucleotide metabolism and carbohydrate metabolism are highly enriched in non-essential reactions.
The Elongator complex, consisting of six subunits with Elp3 as the catalytic subunit, is a histone acetyltransferase (HAT) that plays a crucial role in transcriptional silencing, genome stability, and DNA replication-coupled nucleosome assembly. The interactions of Elp3 with PCNA, a DNA replication protein, suggest its role in DNA replication and repair processes. Cells lacking Elp3 show sensitivity to DNA replication inhibitors like hydroxyurea and damaging agents like methyl methanesulfonate, similar to cells with mutations in genes involved in DNA replication-coupled nucleosome assembly. Elp3 is required for S-phase progression in the presence of hydroxyurea and forms an intact complex for acetylating H4K8 in vivo. Elp3 also interacts with proteins involved in replication-coupled nucleosome assembly and physically binds with PCNA. Elp3's role in maintaining telomeric gene silencing and efficient telomeric gene silencing of the URA3 reporter gene has been demonstrated. The elp3Δ mutant cells exhibit red/white sectoring colonies with predominant white appearance when assayed with the ADE2 gene at the HMR locus, indicating compromised stable inheritance of silencing of the HMR-linked reporter gene. Mutations within the HAT domain and Radical SAM domain of Elp3 reduce telomeric silencing and silencing at the HMR locus, while affecting the structural integrity of the Elongator complex. Site-specific elp3 mutants exhibit varying degrees of HU sensitivity, similar to their telomeric gene silencing defects. The Elongator complex is required for efficient telomeric silencing and resistance to killing by DNA damaging agents, and its silencing defects and sensitivity towards DNA damage displayed by elp3 site-specific mutants are likely due to inactivation of HAT activity of this enzyme.
Vaccination is a crucial method to protect against infectious diseases, and determining the optimal amount of inoculum dose is a key component of rational vaccine design. This involves balancing the need for a high enough dose to stimulate a strong immune response, while avoiding severe side effects and ensuring sufficient population coverage in the event of vaccine shortages. A framework that combines mathematical models with experimental data can help determine the impact of the inoculum dose. This approach is illustrated using data from influenza A virus (IAV) infection of mice and human parainfluenza virus (HPIV) infection of cotton rats at different inoculum doses. The model is used to map inoculum dose to the level of immune protection and morbidity and to explore how such a framework might be used to determine an optimal inoculum dose. The findings demonstrate that the impact of inoculum dose on immune protection and morbidity can depend on the specific pathogen and that both protection and morbidity do not necessarily increase monotonically with increasing inoculum dose. This framework can help in the rational design of vaccines and determination of the optimal amount of inoculum.Vaccines are crucial for protecting against many infectious diseases, with the antigen of the pathogen being the most important component. Different types of vaccines exist, including those based on antigens that contain the pathogen in a non-replicating form and those that contain the pathogen in a replicating form, usually attenuated to reduce morbidity and mortality. Determining the optimal inoculum dose for a vaccine often involves striking a balance between conflicting goals, such as higher doses leading to better immunity and protection, while lower doses might reduce vaccine side effects and be required in the event of vaccine shortages due to pandemic emergencies, manufacturing issues, or high costs. The ability to predict how changes in inoculum dose impact immune protection and morbidity would significantly contribute toward better vaccine design.Currently, the main way to determine vaccine inoculum dose is by trial and error, which is expensive and logistically challenging. A way to improve this approach is to combine mathematical models with experimental data. Such approaches are commonly applied to drugs, where pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) models are used in combination with experimental data to optimize drug dosing regimens. Application of a similar approach to vaccines has been proposed. Here, a quantitative modeling framework is developed and analyzed to eventually predict the optimal inoculum dose for a given vaccine and setting. The framework is developed for live attenuated vaccines using data from two infection experiments, namely influenza A virus (IAV) and human parainfluenza virus (HPIV), and investigates a scenario for an inactivated vaccine. The findings demonstrate the potential of this framework to rationally design vaccines and determine an optimal inoculum dose for any pathogen.
Changes in genomic DNA methylation patterns are recognized as important in human cancer development, and the Dnmt3a enzyme is involved in establishing normal methylation patterns. Mutations in Dnmt3a have been found in leukemias, and deletion of Dnmt3a in a K-ras–dependent mouse lung cancer model promotes tumor progression, suggesting that Dnmt3a suppresses tumor development by stabilizing DNA methylation patterns. Whole-genome bisulfite sequencing was used to characterize the methylomes from Dnmt3a wildtype and Dnmt3a-deficient mouse lung tumors. The results show that profound global methylation changes can occur in K-ras–induced lung cancer, with Dnmt3a wild-type tumors characterized by large hypomethylated domains, while Dnmt3a-deficient tumors show a uniformly hypomethylated genome. Dnmt3a is required for efficient maintenance methylation of active chromosome domains and Dnmt3a-deficient tumors show moderate levels of gene deregulation in these domains. These results uncover conserved features of cancer methylomes and define the role of Dnmt3a in maintaining DNA methylation patterns in cancer.
This summary discusses a genome-wide association (GWA) study aimed at identifying genetic variants associated with PR interval duration in individuals of African ancestry. The study involved four cohorts of African Americans and used the Affymetrix 6.0 microarray for genotyping. Imputation was performed for 2.8 million single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) using combined YRI and CEU HapMap phase II panels. The study found a strong signal (rs3922844) within the gene encoding the cardiac sodium channel (SCN5A) with genome-wide significant association in two of the four cohorts and in the meta-analysis. This SNP was also associated with PR interval in individuals of European ancestry but with a smaller effect size and variability explained. Further meta-analysis identified genome-wide significant associations with SNPs in SCN10A, MEIS1, and TBX5 that were highly correlated with SNPs identified in European and Asian GWA studies. African ancestry was associated with increased PR duration in one but not the other three cohorts. The study highlights the relevance of common variants to African Americans at four loci previously associated with PR interval in European and Asian samples and identifies an association signal at one of these loci that is more strongly associated with PR interval in African Americans than in Europeans. The electrocardiogram is an important clinical tool that provides a graphical representation of the electrical activity of the heart and the PR interval represents conduction through the atria and AV node, with impaired conduction being a central pathogenic mechanism in many cardiac arrhythmias. Prolongation of the PR interval is a risk factor for long-term atrial fibrillation, heart block, and all-cause mortality. A substantial proportion of the variability of the PR interval is explained by genetic factors. Identification of the specific alleles underlying the heritability of the PR interval might provide novel insights into molecular electrophysiology, lead to novel drug targets for arrhythmia treatment, and facilitate genetic prediction of arrhythmia risk and response to antiarrhythmics.
In the olfactory system of insects, inhibitory interneurons play a crucial role in shaping the firing patterns of principal neurons. Two basic motifs of inhibition emerge in neuronal circuits: feed-forward (FF) and feedback (FB). In the locust, it was proposed that a subset of lateral horn interneurons provides FF inhibition onto Kenyon cells (KCs) to maintain their sparse firing. However, recent studies have established that a single inhibitory cell, the giant GABAergic neuron (GGN), is the main source of inhibition in the mushroom body, and inhibition is mediated by a FB loop including KCs and the GGN. A model of the locust olfactory system was used to compare the effects of FF and FB inhibition on circuit dynamics. Both inhibitory motifs were able to maintain sparse KCs responses and provide optimal odor discrimination. However, only FB inhibition could create a phase response consistent with data recorded in vivo. These findings suggest that the GGN is potentially capable of providing the primary source of inhibition to the KCs and reveal general rules for FF versus FB inhibition in biological networks. Inhibition is essential in both invertebrate and vertebrate neural networks, and its various motifs reflect the connections between excitatory and inhibitory neurons. FF and FB inhibition have different properties and serve different functions in neural networks. FB inhibition is well suited to synchronize firing in populations of excitatory principal neurons, while FF inhibition is able to completely block action potentials in the post-synaptic excitatory neurons and create relatively fast inhibition, setting the stage for precise temporal processing. FF and FB inhibition co-exist in the honeybee and mammal MB, and both types of inhibition can maintain sparse stimulus representations. FB inhibition has been tied to odor memory in many insects, and sparse coding is thought to be important for learning and memory. Inhibition in the MB changes with learning, and the FB inhibitory circuit appears to be important for labile memory but not long-term memory. A better understanding of how inhibitory motifs impact post-synaptic neuronal activity could be used to reveal unknown inhibitory structures within biological networks.
The BRCA Challenge, initiated within the Global Alliance for Genomics and Health, is a long-term data-sharing project focused on aggregating BRCA1 and BRCA2 data to support collaborative research activities. The project's primary goal is to generate an informed and current understanding of the impact of genetic variation on cancer risk associated with the iconic cancer predisposition genes, BRCA1 and BRCA2. The BRCA Exchange, a key component of the BRCA Challenge, is a resource that aggregates over 20,000 variants in BRCA1 and BRCA2, providing the community with a reliable and easily accessible record of variants interpreted for a high-penetrance phenotype. These data are derived from shared information from existing clinical databases, such as Breast Cancer Information Core, ClinVar, and the Leiden Open Variation Database, as well as population databases.The BRCA Challenge aims to advance our understanding of BRCA1 and BRCA2 variation by engaging national centers with access to BRCA1 and BRCA2 diagnostic data to encourage data sharing, developing methods suitable for extraction of genetic variation at the level of individual laboratory reports, and engaging with participant communities to enable a more comprehensive understanding of the clinical significance of genetic variation in BRCA1 and BRCA2.The story of BRCA1 and BRCA2 begins in 1866 when Paul Broca described a cluster of breast cancers in his wife’s family, heralding the concept of familial risk for breast cancer. Over decades of studies, the concept of a cancer-predisposition gene emerged as a critical driving force for applying genetic analyses to map cancer genes in families presenting with breast and/or ovarian cancer. In 1990, what is now known as BRCA1 was localized to the long arm of chromosome 17, and four years later, the gene itself was identified, revealing specific coding variants strongly linked to risk for breast and ovarian cancers within families and high-risk populations. A second major cancer gene for breast and ovarian cancer, BRCA2, was localized to the long arm of chromosome 13 in 1994 and cloned and sequenced in 1995. By 1996, genetic testing of these two genes was introduced into clinical practice.Despite the progress made in understanding BRCA1 and BRCA2, there remains a need for a consistent variant classification scheme that is systematically developed, validated, peer-reviewed, and published as authority for use by diverse stakeholders. The ENIGMA consortium and the National Institutes of Health (NIH)-funded ClinGen have taken steps to address this need. The ENIGMA consortium, an international multidisciplinary consortium, aims to develop methods for improved classification of variants in BRCA1 and BRCA2 and other known or suspected breast cancer predisposition genes to guide their use in clinical testing panels. ClinGen has a process to appoint expert panels to provide expert variant curation for specific genes, and the ENIGMA consortium was approved as an expert panel by ClinGen to apply its methods to define more precise criteria for annotation of variants in BRCA1 and BRCA2.The BRCA Challenge and the BRCA Exchange aim to accelerate the process of decreasing variants of uncertain clinical significance and differences in interpretation of the same variant between different laboratories by enabling increased sharing of existing variant information and using additional observations to improve evidence-based classification. The emergence of multiple public and private databases worldwide, together with proprietary diagnostic testing databases, have created challenges in linking a large set of well-annotated variants for public interpretation. The rapid rise of next-generation sequencing by academic centers, commercial diagnostic companies, and national programs has created an opportunity to collect information and classify more variants. The BRCA Exchange has developed an open-access web portal, the BRCA Exchange, a resource to display BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants drawn from global sources and to enable BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants to be expert-reviewed, interpreted, classified, and aggregated in an integrated data system. The portal is fully open access and enables easy download of variants and variant-level evidence by anyone with an internet connection. The global focus of the portal enables coordination and collaboration with relevant investigators and databases from around the world in a supranational consortium, thus creating the most comprehensive source of variation in BRCA1 and BRCA2, including high-quality variant classifications made by ENIGMA.
A genome-wide RNAi screen in Drosophila S2 cells was conducted to identify factors that modulate signaling between RAS and MAPK. The screen identified 309 hit genes, including core RAS/MAPK pathway components and known positively and negatively acting genes. After validation and elimination of false positives, 101 genes were found to reproducibly alter pMAPK signal. These genes were assigned to broad functional categories, with transcription and mRNA processing factors composing roughly half of the candidates. A series of secondary screens were conducted to further characterize the candidate genes, and four distinct MAPK activation assays were used to assess the degree to which pathway activity could be perturbed by depletion of the candidate genes in different activation contexts occurring upstream of RAS. Epistasis experiments were then carried out to position the identified genes in relation to the core kinases of the pathway. The results showed that most of the candidates were assigned to the MEK-MAPK interval, with the majority of these being factors not previously linked to RAS/MAPK signaling. This suggests that additional regulatory events that escaped prior detection are lying downstream of MEK. Remarkably, the vast majority of the RNA processing factors identified in the primary screen did not modulate pJNK levels, indicating their specific role in RAS/MAPK signaling. A protein interaction network was constructed based on publicly available protein and genetic interaction data, which showed that components of the STRIPAK complex and mRNA processing factors group together in similar functional profiles in the clustering analysis. Most of the candidates were found to cause shifts in the mapk RT-PCR profile, indicating that they regulate AS of mapk. Most of the factors positioned downstream of MEK caused a reduction of MAPK protein levels, while most of the other hits did not appear to cause a significant change in the transcript levels of pathway components. A scoring system was derived to discriminate high-quality candidates from non-specific hits, and most of the factors that selectively affected MAPK levels were not present in previous screen hit lists more frequently than bona fide RAS/MAPK factors and generally displayed a good specificity to the RAS/MAPK context. Overall, the study provides a comprehensive view of regulatory factors influencing signal transmission between RAS and MAPK and suggests that pathway output does not solely rely on post-translational regulatory events but is also tightly governed by the regulation of the expression of core components.
"The development of methodologies for reconstructing transmission trees in infectious disease outbreaks from densely sampled whole genome sequence data has been ongoing in recent years. However, a fundamental limitation of these approaches is the requirement for genetic diversity to arise on epidemiological timescales. The position of infected individuals in a transmission tree can only be resolved by genetic data if mutations have accumulated between the sampled pathogen genomes. A new concept, ""transmission divergence,"" is introduced to quantify and compare the useful genetic diversity expected from genetic data in different pathogen outbreaks. Defined as the number of mutations separating whole genome sequences sampled from transmission pairs, transmission divergence is simulated using two models and ten major outbreak-causing pathogens. It is found that while mean values vary significantly between the pathogens considered, their transmission divergence is generally very low, with many outbreaks characterized by large numbers of genetically identical transmission pairs. This has implications for the ability to reconstruct outbreaks using two outbreak reconstruction tools, with sequence data of rapidly evolving pathogens providing valuable information on individual transmission events, while sequence data of pathogens with lower mean transmission divergence providing little to no information. The results highlight the informational limitations of genetic sequence data in certain outbreak scenarios and demonstrate the need to expand the toolkit of outbreak reconstruction tools to integrate other types of epidemiological data."
The global circulation of all four types of dengue virus (DENV-1-4) has expanded, leading to concerns of increased severe dengue cases. While most DENV infections are subclinical, epidemiologic studies suggest that type-cross-reactive immunity can influence disease outcome in subsequent infections. A study was conducted on a cohort of Thai children who experienced a subclinical DENV infection or developed dengue illness. Blood samples were collected, and PBMC collected prior to infection were stimulated in vitro with DENV. The secretion of 30 cytokines was measured using a multiplexed, bead-based array. Significant differences were found in cytokine production based on the type of DENV used for stimulation and the occurrence of clinical illness. Specifically, IL-15 and MCP-1 were significantly higher in PBMC of subjects who later developed symptomatic DENV infection. IL-6 was produced by PBMC from all subjects who subsequently developed symptomatic infection, versus 59% of subjects who had subclinical infection. Secretion of IL-12, IL-2R, MIP-1α, RANTES, GM-CSF, and TNFα was significantly lower by PBMC from subjects with symptomatic infection. These data demonstrate significant differences in pre-existing immune responses to DENV associated with the clinical outcome of subsequent infection, indicating both protective and pathologic immune profiles. Clinical-immunological correlations identified in the context of natural DENV infection may be useful for evaluating immune responses to dengue vaccines.
