 This study investigates the developmental progression of large-scale synaptic and cellular activity patterns in the cortex of mice and humans using high spatiotemporal resolution in vivo electrophysiology. The researchers reveal that mature cortical processes emerge rapidly and simultaneously after a discrete but volatile transition period at the beginning of the second postnatal week. During this period, neural activity is characterized by relative quiescence, after which spatially distributed, temporally precise, and internally organized activity occurs. This developmental trajectory is similar in humans, suggesting an evolutionarily conserved mechanism for the transition in network operation. The hypothesis is that this transient quiescent period is a requisite for the subsequent emergence of coordinated cortical networks.The study finds that sleep LFP macrostructure expresses a nonlinear pattern of development that is characterized by a discrete period of relative neural quiescence occurring at the beginning of the second postnatal week. Neural spiking patterns also follow a similar highly nonlinear developmental trajectory, with a significant nadir at the beginning of the second postnatal week. This developmental inflection point may reflect a rapid and confluent engagement of mechanisms that enable mature computational processes within cortical networks.The researchers suggest that the cortical network dynamics shift to permit temporally precise neural spiking after the transition period. Significantly synchronized firing within 10-50 ms intervals was absent prior to this period and robustly emerged afterward. This result is consistent with observed increase in pair-wise correlations of spike activity in visual cortex over development.The study also finds that oscillatory activity was intermittent with non-uniform cycle-to-cycle waveforms and high broadband frequency coherence prior to the transition period. Oscillatory activities after the transition became nearly uninterrupted, exhibiting coupling at discrete frequency bands and increased waveform symmetry.The researchers propose that the neural spiking features observed through invasive recordings in mouse pups could also extend to normally developing human infants, where such recordings are not possible. They suggest that the cortical network dynamics shift to permit temporally precise neural spiking after the transition period, which is necessary for the internal representations associated with planning and executive function.The study was limited to somatosensory cortex, and the existence of a transient quiescent epoch outside of this brain region is unknown. However, similar results have been identified in visual cortex, where a transient nadir in continuity was not identified but continuity did rise sharply after P8 with a nonlinear trajectory. The least synchronous neural spiking activity in visual cortex occurred at the beginning of the second postnatal week, potentially in keeping with the decrease in temporal precision of spiking at this time.The study also suggests that multiple lines of evidence support an abrupt change in cortical network function at the beginning of the second postnatal week. It is possible that the use of surface arrays, which sample summated LFP activity from the undisturbed superficial cortical layers, highlights the transient quiescent state compared to penetrating probes that disrupt the cortical surface upon implantation. Additionally, conducting polymer-based electrodes have lower impedance than silicon probes, potentially increasing the sensitivity to changes in oscillatory power and continuity.The study also proposes that a potential driver for the shift in network operating mode is maturation of functional cortical inhibition. Functional inhibitory connections regulate physiological oscillations in mature neural networks, enabling submillisecond precision of spike timing and facilitating inter-regional synchronization. In contrast, interneurons do not substantially pace immature oscillations during the first postnatal week, though they can be recruited to and contribute to spatial properties of this activity. Functional feedforward inhibition rapidly matures around the beginning of the second postnatal week in mice, resulting in emergence of adult-like hyperpolarizing synaptic potentials and precisely timed action potentials in glutamatergic neurons within the microcircuit. This timepoint, derived from in vitro data, temporally overlaps with the onset of adult-like neural network activity observed in vivo. In the human brain, when mature functional inhibition arises is not known, but ongoing migration of cells that differentiate into interneurins in the months after birth suggests the possibility of a postnatal transition to such network activity. The aperiodic component of the power spectrum has been linked to excitatory-inhibitory balance, and the finding that this value transiently increases during the quiescent period could support a temporary increase in inhibition in the human brain. Such a mechanism could underlie the known postnatal disappearance of the EE
 This study investigates the relationship between decision speed, accuracy, and confidence in the context of a random dot motion (RDM) task, where subjects make binary decisions about the direction of motion in a dynamic visual display. The authors introduce a novel manipulation of the variance associated with the neural representation of momentary evidence, which they refer to as volatility, and test its influence on the three observables of choice behavior in monkeys and humans.The authors find that increasing volatility leads to faster reaction times and higher confidence, particularly at weak motion strengths. They explain these findings using a bounded evidence accumulation model, which depicts the decision process as a race between competing accumulators, each of which integrates momentary evidence for one alternative and against the others. The decision terminates when the accumulated evidence for one alternative reaches a threshold or bound, thereby determining both the choice and the decision time. Confidence in the decision derives from a mapping between the decision variable and the probability that a decision based on this variable will be correct.The authors also find that the effects of volatility on reaction time and confidence are most pronounced at weak motion strengths, where choices are more stochastic. They suggest that this is because the decision variable tends to diffuse more rapidly away from its starting point to achieve levels nearer the termination bound, which are ordinarily associated with stronger evidence and thus greater confidence.The authors note that their findings are consistent with previous studies that have shown that noisy evidence can lead to faster decisions and higher confidence, but with the caveat that accuracy is minimally impaired. They also suggest that their results have implications for understanding the neural mechanisms underlying decision-making and the relationship between confidence and accuracy.Overall, this study provides important insights into the relationship between decision speed, accuracy, and confidence in the context of a dynamic visual task, and offers a novel explanation for the seemingly paradoxical finding that noisy evidence can lead to faster decisions and higher confidence.
 Lowe syndrome and Dent's disease are X-linked disorders caused by mutations in the inositol 5-phosphatase OCRL gene. OCRL is a multidomain protein that interacts with clathrin and AP-2 at late-stage clathrin-coated pits, and its loss results in an endocytic defect characterized by an accumulation of clathrin-coated vesicles that fail to lose their coat. These vesicles nucleate actin comets, which are dependent on N-WASP and the Arp2/3 complex, and contain clathrin, AP-2, SNX9, SNX18, and PI3KcIIα. The absence of OCRL impairs uncoating and delays late steps in clathrin-mediated endocytosis, possibly due to the sequestration of endocytic factors on uncoated vesicles. The findings provide new insights into the molecular pathogenesis of Lowe syndrome and Dent's disease and the basic mechanisms of endocytosis.OCRL is a 5-phosphatase that acts on inositol phospholipids and has a broad intracellular localization, which is mediated by interactions with proteins that control membrane traffic and the actin cytoskeleton. These include clathrin-heavy chain, the clathrin adaptor AP-2, Rab and Rho family GTPases, and the endosomal adaptors APPL1 and Ses1/2. OCRL has been localized to the Golgi complex, to a variety of endosomal compartments, and to clathrin-coated pits. INPP5B, a 5-phosphatase very similar to OCRL, has many of the same properties but does not bind clathrin and AP-2 and is not localized at endocytic clathrin-coated pits.The loss of OCRL in Lowe syndrome patient fibroblasts results in an impairment of clathrin-mediated endocytosis, as shown by an accumulation of late-stage (primarily U-shaped) endocytic clathrin-coated pits and a delay in the internalization of transferrin, a clathrin-coated pit cargo. The defect is characterized by a delay in the shedding of the clathrin coat and an accumulation of clathrin-coated vesicles that fail to uncoat, leading to the sequestration of endocytic factors on these vesicles. The findings suggest that OCRL plays a role in clathrin uncoating and that its absence impairs the recycling of endocytic factors and affects the maturation of clathrin-coated pits.SNX9, a protein implicated in the transition from late-stage clathrin-coated pits to free clathrin-coated vesicles, directly binds OCRL through its SH3 domain and its PxxP site. SNX9 also binds synaptojanin and synaptojanin 2, suggesting a partial overlap in the function of these 5-phosphatases. The interaction between SNX9 and OCRL may help coordinate actin polymerization at late-stage clathrin-coated pits with the turnover of PI (4,5)P2 controlled by OCRL.In summary, the findings demonstrate that OCRL plays a role in clathrin-mediated endocytosis by acting as an uncoating factor and that its absence impairs the normal progression of endocytosis, leading to the clinical manifestations of Lowe syndrome and Dent's disease. The study provides new insights into the molecular mechanisms of endocytosis and the pathogenesis of these disorders.
 In the Drosophila larval wing imaginal disc, the signaling protein Branchless (Bnl) is produced from a restricted group of cells and induces budding and growth of the wing disc-associated tracheal branch, the air-sac primordium (ASP), from the disc-associated transverse connective (TC). Bnl moves target-specifically from the producing cells to the ASP through cytonemes and forms a long-range concentration gradient by dynamically adapting to the recipient ASP-specific shapes and contours. The Bnl gradient shapes are variable and develop concomitantly with the growth of the recipient ASP. The range and slope of the Bnl gradient are dependent on the ASP morphology, and the gradient did not pre-exist but instead developed dynamically in coordination with the recipient tissue morphogenesis. The Bnl gradient is essential for the ASP cells to receive Bnl from the wing disc source, and the distribution profile of Bnl:GFP in btl-LOF clones further suggested that cytonemes are the only major routes for Bnl gradient formation. The cytoneme-mediated mechanism of dispersion is receptor-dependent and creates cell-autonomous loss of receptor-bound Bnl:GFPex on the surface of a btl-LOF clone, which is different from the passive extracellular Bnl:GFP diffusion that would be expected to result in unperturbed levels of the extracellular EIF-stained Bnl:GFPex on the receptor-LOF clone. The distribution pattern of Bnl:GFPex was consistent with a cytoneme-dependent mechanism of gradient formation. In the ASP stalk, where normal levels of Btl are low, generation of btl overexpressing (btl-GOF) clones induced extension of long polarized cytonemes that projected toward the underlying disc bnl-source, and these cytonemes were enriched with EIF-stained Bnl:GFPex on their surfaces and had a higher concentration of Bnl:GFP than their neighbors. This result provided direct evidence that the induction of cytonemes in ASP cells increased cell-autonomous contact-dependent Bnl:GFP uptake. The cytoneme-mediated mechanism of gradient formation offers an explanation for how diverse tissue morphologies can result from just one signaling pathway, as feedback regulation of cytoneme-mediated transport may offer an explanation for why signal gradients are so precise, yet adaptable.
 This study analyzes genome-wide data from 48 African and 12 non-African populations to understand historical gene-flow and population structure in sub-Saharan Africa. The authors used a combination of approaches, including principal component analysis (PCA), fineSTRUCTURE, and admixture analysis, to identify genetic relationships and ancestry regions.PCA revealed that genetic relationships are broadly defined by geographical and ethno-linguistic similarity, with the first two principal components splitting southern groups from the rest of Africa and reflecting ethno-linguistic divides. The third principal component represents geographical separation of Niger-Congo speakers, forming a cline from west to east Africans.FineSTRUCTURE analysis identified 154 clusters of individuals, with some ethnic groups, such as the Yoruba, Mossi, Jola, and Ju/’hoansi, forming clusters containing only individuals from their own ethnic group. The analysis also showed that African populations tend to share more DNA with geographically proximate populations.Admixture analysis using the f3 statistic and ALDER identified significant departures from the null model of no admixture in 83% of the African groups surveyed, with most of these events involving Eurasian or Khoesan sources. MALDER analysis identified multiple admixture events, with the earliest events occurring around 5000 BCE and the most recent events within the last 1000 years.The authors also explored the relationship between self-reported ethnic labels and genetic relationships, finding that there can be significant differences between the two. They emphasized the importance of considering haplotype similarity to other ancestries when designing genotyping and sequencing studies to adequately cover the breadth of variation in African populations.Overall, this study provides valuable insights into the genetic relationships and historical gene-flow in sub-Saharan Africa, which is relevant for understanding the genetic basis of important diseases in the region and for studying population history.
 Latent Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection is linked to several human cancers, with EBV expressing viral oncogenes that promote cell growth and inhibit apoptosis. The EBV oncoprotein LMP1 constitutively activates NFκB and is essential for the survival of EBV-immortalized B cells. However, during early infection, EBV induces rapid B cell proliferation with low levels of LMP1 and little apoptosis. To define the mechanism of survival in the absence of LMP1/NFκB early after infection, researchers used BH3 profiling to query mitochondrial regulation of apoptosis.They identified a transition from uninfected B cells to early-infected cells and immortalized cells, with a unique regulation of MCL-1 mitochondrial localization and BFL-1 transcription by the viral EBNA3A protein. This study defines a new role for EBNA3A in the suppression of apoptosis, with implications for EBV lymphomagenesis.EBV infection of primary B cells only modestly reduces overall mitochondrial priming, but the BH3 profiles revealed marked changes in the BCL-2 family dependencies between the groups. Uninfected B cells depend on BCL-2 or BCL-w for survival, while EBV-infected proliferating B cells rely on both MCL-1 and BCL-2/BCL-w for survival. LCLs lost sensitivity to Bmf, but sensitivity to Puma did not change between proliferating and LCLs, suggesting additional BFL-1 mediated pro-survival effects in LCLs.The researchers hypothesized that EBV infection reduces the dependence of B cells on BCL-2, BCL-xL, or BCL-w for survival due to the loss of Bad sensitivity between uninfected and early-infected B cells. They tested this hypothesis by treating PBMCs with small molecule BH3 mimetics either concurrent with EBV infection or at the onset of proliferation and measuring the number of proliferating EBV-infected B cells at 7 dpi using flow cytometry and the proliferation tracking dye CellTrace Violet. They also assayed the sensitivity of monoclonal LCLs to BH3 mimetic treatment for an equivalent period of time.The results showed that EBV-infected cells were resistant to ABT-737 and ABT-199, indicating that uninfected human peripheral blood CD19+ B cells depend on BCL-2 for survival and EBV upregulates additional survival proteins to suppress apoptosis induced by BCL-2 antagonism. The study also revealed that MCL-1 collaborates with BCL-2 to protect EBV-infected proliferating B cells early after infection, while BFL-1 additionally protects LCLs late after infection.In summary, this study provides new insights into the mechanisms of survival during EBV infection and the role of EBNA3A in apoptosis resistance during both early and late EBV-induced B cell proliferation. The findings have implications for understanding the molecular basis of EBV-associated malignancies and potential therapeutic approaches.
 This study investigates the role of non-consensus CTD modifications, specifically mono- and di-methylation of CTD-K7 residues, in the regulation of gene expression. The authors find that these modifications occur at the earliest stages of transcription and are refractory to CDK9 inhibition. They also observe that the ratio between K7me2 and K7ac at active promoters is inversely related to gene expression, suggesting a balance between K7 modifications fine-tunes gene expression levels. The study provides insights into the functional significance of CTD-K7 methylation and acetylation and their interplay in gene regulation.
 Swi2/Snf2 ATPases, including the single subunit remodeler Mot1, control a wide range of DNA-associated processes by remodeling substrates such as nucleosomes and transcription complexes. However, detailed structural information on the ATP-dependent remodeling reactions is largely absent. In this study, the crystal structure of the N-terminal domain of Mot1 in complex with TBP, DNA, and the transcription regulator negative cofactor 2 (NC2) was determined at 3.8 Å resolution. The data suggest that Mot1 reduces DNA:NC2 interactions and unbends DNA, priming TBP:NC2 displacement in an ATP-independent manner. Electron microscopy and cross-linking data indicate that the Swi2/Snf2 domain of Mot1 associates with the upstream DNA and the histone fold of NC2, revealing parallels to some nucleosome remodelers. This study provides a structural framework for how a Swi2/Snf2 ATPase interacts with its substrate DNA:protein complex.
 In mammalian oocytes, Shugoshin-like protein 2 (Sgol2) plays an essential role in coordinating various processes necessary for faithful chromosome segregation during meiosis I. Sgol2's functions include protecting cohesin, silencing the spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC), promoting chromosome congression, bi-orientation, and limiting bivalent stretching. Sgol2's ability to protect cohesin depends on its interaction with PP2A, as does its ability to silence the SAC. However, its effects on bivalent stretching and K-fiber formation are independent of PP2A and mediated by recruitment of MCAK and inhibition of Aurora C kinase activity, respectively. By virtue of its multiple interactions, Sgol2 links many of the processes essential for chromosome segregation.Sgol2's coiled coil domain binds PP2A, and its depletion in oocytes leads to defects in SAC silencing, increased bivalent stretching, and altered kinetochore-microtubule attachments (K-fibers). Sgol2 interacts with Mad2, a key component of the MCC, and its dephosphorylation by PP2A is required to turn off the SAC. Sgol2 also interacts with Aurora B/C kinases, and its phosphorylation at T521 and T600 by Aurora B/C kinases facilitates MCAK recruitment to kinetochores, which may be the mechanism by which Sgol2 accelerates chromosome bi-orientation.The regulatory network revealed by this work ensures that Aurora B/C kinases will be active early during the bi-orientation, when incorrect attachments may be more frequent, and less active later, when they have been largely eliminated. This negative feedback loop may be an important feature of meiosis I, as it allows for efficient bi-orientation while minimizing the risk of destabilizing correctly attached bivalents. The precise spatial and dynamic properties of this feedback loop, as well as its potential role in mitotic cells, remain to be determined.
 This study aimed to determine the genetic factors contributing to Streptococcus pneumoniae carriage duration in a human population. Longitudinal swab data and whole genome sequence data were used to develop models and estimate heritability. The results showed that pneumococcal genomic variation accounted for 63% of the phenotype variation, while host traits accounted for less than 5%. Genetic variation was partitioned into lineage and locus effects, with serotype, drug-resistance, and other significant locus effects contributing to 17%, 9%, and 7% of the variation in carriage duration, respectively. Prophage sequences were identified as being associated with decreased carriage duration independent of serotype, potentially by disrupting the competence mechanism. The findings support theoretical models of pneumococcal competition and antibiotic resistance.
 C4 photosynthesis, a complex trait found in over 60 plant lineages, has independently evolved through diverse and flexible paths. To understand the evolutionary history of C4 photosynthesis, researchers conducted a meta-analysis of 18 lineages containing species that use C3, C4, or intermediate C3–C4 forms of photosynthesis. They used a 16-dimensional phenotypic landscape to parameterise the evolution of C4 photosynthesis and developed a novel Bayesian approach based on a hidden Markov model to predict the evolutionary trajectories.The results showed that the order of C4 trait acquisition is flexible and driven by non-photosynthetic drivers. The convergent evolution of C4 photosynthesis is a common phenomenon, with other complex traits such as camera-like eyes and different photosynthetic machineries in plants also exhibiting convergent evolution. The flexibility in the evolution of complex traits, including C4 photosynthesis, is likely a key factor in facilitating their emergence in multiple lineages.The researchers found that the evolution of C4 photosynthesis can be grouped into four major trajectories, each with distinct evolutionary histories. The first trajectory involves the evolution of C4 photosynthesis in monocots and eudicots, which show broad differences in the evolutionary pathways. The second trajectory focuses on the evolution of NADP-ME and NAD-ME sub-types of C4 photosynthesis, which differ primarily in the evolution of decreased vein spacing and greater numbers of chloroplasts in BS cells.The researchers also found that the early evolution of C4 photosynthesis was likely driven by non-photosynthetic pressures, as alterations to anatomy and cell biology preceded the majority of biochemical alterations. These early changes may have helped improve leaf hydraulics under drought and increase fire frequency resistance.Overall, this study provides new insights into the evolution of C4 photosynthesis and highlights the importance of flexibility in the evolution of complex traits. The findings may also have implications for efforts to engineer C4 photosynthesis into C3 crop species.
 Influenza A viruses (IAV) are known to significantly shut off host gene expression, but the mechanisms behind this phenomenon are not fully understood. IAV is unique among viruses as it is believed to employ both direct co-opting of the translation machinery and host mRNA degradation to achieve host shutoff. In this study, RNA-sequencing and ribosome profiling were used to explore the mechanisms of IAV-induced host shutoff.The results showed that host shutoff is mainly achieved by reduction in cellular mRNAs levels, and that IAV transcripts are not preferentially translated. The extent of mRNAs reduction is related to their length and GC content, with shorter and more structured transcripts being less affected. Transcripts encoding oxidative phosphorylation related proteins are less affected by IAV infection, and their continuous expression supports the energetic demands essential for virus replication.IAV employs multiple mechanisms to interfere with cellular RNA expression, including cap-snatching, inhibition of pre-mRNA polyadenylation, degradation of RNA Polymerase II, nuclear retention of cellular mRNAs, and cellular mRNAs degradation. However, the study revealed that viral mRNAs are not preferentially translated compared to their host counterparts, and that the extensive translation of viral proteins is the result of viral takeover of the mRNA pool in the cell.Furthermore, the study demonstrated that continuous oxidative phosphorylation activity is important for IAV propagation. Inhibition of oxidative phosphorylation to levels that do not affect cell viability severely impairs viral replication, suggesting that the continuous expression of proteins involved in oxidative phosphorylation is important for viral propagation.In conclusion, this study provides new insights into the mechanisms of IAV-induced host shutoff and the importance of maintaining cellular functions that are important for viral propagation. The findings advance our understanding of the complex interplay between viruses and their host cells and have implications for the development of antiviral therapies.
 The transcription factor RpaA is the master regulator of circadian transcription in the cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus PCC7942, driving genome-wide oscillations in mRNA abundance. Deletion of rpaA has no effect on viability in constant light conditions but renders cells inviable in cycling conditions when light and dark periods alternate. The mechanisms underlying this viability defect were investigated, and it was demonstrated that the rpaA- strain cannot maintain appropriate energy status at night, does not accumulate carbon reserves during the day, and is defective in transcription of genes crucial for utilization of carbohydrate stores at night. Reconstruction of carbon utilization pathways and provision of an external carbon source restored energy charge and viability of the rpaA- strain in light/dark cycling conditions. These observations highlight how a circadian output pathway controls and temporally coordinates essential pathways in carbon metabolism to maximize fitness of cells facing periodic energy limitations.
 Coiled coils are protein domains with a well-understood structure, characterized by a heptad repeat sequence and a mostly hydrophobic core. They are ubiquitous in various structural and functional contexts and are the only protein fold with a backbone structure that can be computed using parametric equations. Recent studies have revealed an unexpected formation of a new type of fiber by inserting two or six residues into the underlying heptad repeat of a parallel, trimeric coiled coil. These insertions strain the supercoil to the breaking point, causing the local formation of short β-strands, which move the path of the chain by 120° around the trimer axis. The result is an α/β coiled coil, which retains only one backbone hydrogen bond per repeat unit from the parent coiled coil. This finding demonstrates that a substantially novel backbone structure is possible within the allowed regions of the Ramachandran space with only minor mutations to a known fold. The study was based on the analysis of the OMP100 protein from Actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans and the Tcar0761 protein from Thermosinus carboxydivorans. The results were confirmed by crystallography and molecular dynamics simulations. The findings have implications for the design of new protein fibers and the understanding of protein evolution.
 This study suggests that hemoglobin (Hb) cooperativity, in addition to affinity, plays a crucial role in optimizing tissue oxygen delivery. The authors propose that mammalian Hb cooperativity values have evolved to reside on a ridge of the theoretical biophysical Hill cooperativity landscape, achieving maximum cooperativity through tuning of the relative affinity (c) and conformational ratio (L) of the T and R quaternary states of the protein. This balance between affinity and cooperativity ensures maximal oxygen unloading upon Hb transfer from the lungs to other tissues and greater sensitivity to tissue oxygen unloading. The findings reveal the evolutionary strategy underlying the observed variations in Hb behavior and have implications for understanding the relationship between sequence variations in Hb and their fitness effects. The study also highlights the importance of considering both affinity and cooperativity in assessing the adaptive value of Hb in different organisms.
 The Brazilian cave insect Neotrogla possesses a functional switching valve within its female genitalia, which is composed of two plate-like sclerites, a closure element, and in-and-outflow canals. Females have a penis-like intromittent organ to coercively anchor males and obtain voluminous semen, which is packed in a capsule and consumed as nutrition. The valve complex has two slots for insemination, allowing females to continue mating while the first slot is occupied. This switching valve, in conjunction with the female penis, is a morphological novelty that enables females to compete for seminal gifts in their nutrient-poor cave habitats through long copulation times and multiple seminal injections. The evolution of this switching valve may have been a prerequisite for the reversal of the intromittent organ in Neotrogla. Insects have evolved various micron-scale mechanisms, such as hinges, on-off valves, backflow valves, coiling mechanisms, and catapult-like mechanisms, which can inspire engineering solutions. The genus Neotrogla, a minute Brazilian cave insect, is of special interest due to its reversed genital structures. Females have a penis-like intromittent organ, which is inserted into a male's vagina-like genital cavity for copulation. During mating, the male injects liquid semen into the female's sperm storage organ, which then induces the formation of a hard capsule shell around the semen. The spermathecal plate, a bowl-shaped chitinous structure, plays an important role in the evolution of the reversed intromittent organs in Neotrogla. It harbors a fan-like muscle that activates a closure element to control the direction of seminal flow. This biological switching valve allows females to receive two seminal packages from the same or different males within a short time span, enabling them to immediately receive an additional seminal package while digesting one. The presence of this switching valve may further refine our understanding of the causes and consequences of the reversed sexual selection in this genus.
 In recent studies, the position and dynamics of ionotropic glutamate receptors, specifically α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors (AMPARs), have been a major focus in understanding synaptic plasticity, the leading cellular correlate of learning and memory. AMPARs traffic intracellularly from sites of synthesis and assembly to exocytosis sites near synapses. However, it is still unclear what mechanisms limit AMPAR entry into and exit out of post-synaptic densities (PSDs).Previous research suggests that AMPAR trafficking consists of exo- and endocytosis at sites on the plasma membrane, diffusion to and from these sites and PSDs, and entry into and exit from PSDs. The positioning of AMPAR endo- and exocytosis sites with respect to PSDs is uncertain, with some evidence for sites within spines and others outside of spines. Additionally, the recycling pathway under constitutive conditions may differ from the pathway during synaptic plasticity.Advanced fluorescence microscopic techniques have been used to investigate iGluR dynamics. Commercial quantum dots (bQDs) with a diameter greater than 20 nm have been observed within synaptic clefts of inhibitory synapses by electron microscopy. bQDs are extremely bright, photostable, and their position can be localized to within ~10 nm in the millisecond time-scale. Studies using AMPARs tagged with bQDs led to the conclusion that 50-80% of AMPARs are extrasynaptic and highly mobile. However, this significant pool of extrasynaptic AMPARs has been proposed to exist due to the slow rate that extrasynaptic AMPARs enter PSDs.New studies using 3-dimensional super-resolution microscopy on cell-surface AMPARs labeled with different-sized fluorescent probes have challenged this hypothesis. Using bQDs, over 90% of AMPARs were found to be in PSDs, with less than 10% being highly mobile and extrasynaptic. However, when AMPARs were labeled with smaller quantum dots (sQDs) or organic fluorophores, over 84-97% of AMPARs were immobilized within PSDs, and only 5-16% were freely diffusing in the dendrite membrane. These findings suggest that bQDs are too large to enable AMPARs to enter the synaptic cleft, and the previous results using bQDs have been misleading.Electrophysiology, fluorescence microscopy, and electron microscopy have all shown that most AMPARs are localized and clustered at synaptic PSDs in mature neurons. The question then arises as to why so few highly-mobile extrasynaptic AMPARs were observed in the study. One possible explanation is that in the protocol used, there is approximately 6 minutes of dead time with the addition of fluorophores and their binding to cell-surface AMPARs. It is likely that many of the labeled AMPARs are diffusing into PSDs during the dead time and are not observed. Another possibility is that once AMPARs enter PSDs, their residence time there is lengthy, and they are not observed exiting from PSDs because the rate of exit is much slower compared to the time period used to monitor AMPAR dynamics.Experiments were performed using a Nikon Ti Eclipse microscope with a Nikon APO 100 X objective, an Agilent laser system MLC400B with four fiber-coupled lasers, and a back illuminated EMCCD camera for recording. A cylindrical lens was used for 3-D imaging, and a motorized stage was used for x-y-z position control. A quad-band dichroic and band-pass emission filter were used for fluorescence imaging. Stage drift and chromatic aberration were significant challenges in taking super-resolution images. Making fiduciary-marked patterns on coverslips was an efficient method to correct stage drift instead of using fluorescent beads and gold nano-particles as fiduciary markers. Poly-L/D-lysine and laminin were used to coat coverslips
 The DOM complex in Drosophila melanogaster, which is responsible for histone variant exchange and histone acetylation, was thought to be a chimera of two distinct complexes. However, recent research reveals that the DOM complex consists of two separate complexes, DOM-A.C and DOM-B.C, each with distinct functions. DOM-A.C functions as an ATP-independent histone acetyltransferase complex, similar to the yeast NuA4 complex, targeting lysine 12 of histone H4. DOM-B.C, on the other hand, is the main ATP-dependent remodeler for H2A.V, responsible for its deposition across the genome and specifically at active promoters. The discovery of these two separate complexes provides an instructive example of how different evolutionary strategies can lead to similar functional separation. In yeast and humans, nucleosome remodeling and histone acetyltransferase complexes originate from gene duplication and paralog specification. Drosophila generates the same diversity by alternative splicing of a single gene.
 In this study, the authors used single particle tracking with photoactivated localization microscopy (spt-PALM) to investigate the diffusion and trafficking properties of KRasG12D, an active KRas mutant, in U2OS cells. They found that KRasG12D exhibits distinct membrane domains that dictate its diffusion behavior. Specifically, KRasG12D shows an immobile state in ~70 nm domains, each embedded in a larger domain (~200 nm) that confers intermediate mobility, while the rest of the membrane supports fast diffusion. Moreover, KRasG12D is continuously removed from the membrane via the immobile state and replenished to the fast state, reminiscent of Ras internalization and recycling. Importantly, the diffusion and trafficking properties of KRasG12D remain invariant over a broad range of protein expression levels. The authors' findings reveal how membrane organization dictates membrane diffusion and trafficking of Ras and offer new insight into the spatial regulation of Ras signaling.
 This analysis examines the impact of magnetic fields on biological molecules and cells, focusing on recent claims of magnetically sensitive proteins and membrane conductance. However, these claims conflict with fundamental laws of physics, as the reported phenomena involve large discrepancies, ranging from 5 to 10 log units.Magnetic fields interact weakly with biological matter due to its paramagnetic nature. For instance, magnetotactic bacteria synthesize ferrimagnetic crystals of magnetite to align with magnetic field lines and navigate. However, the proposed magnetically sensitive proteins, such as the rod-shaped complex isolated from the fruit fly, cannot generate an intrinsic magnetic moment large enough to align with the Earth's magnetic field.Another claim involves the use of ferritin to control membrane conductance by attaching it to an ion channel protein and then tugging it or heating it with a magnetic field. Ferritin, a large protein complex with 24 subunits, has a hollow core that can be filled with iron in the form of a ferric hydroxide. At room temperature, ferritin has no permanent magnetization and is strictly paramagnetic or superparamagnetic. An external magnetic field biases the fluctuations of the Fe spins in the core, producing a magnetic moment proportional to the field strength. However, the iron core of ferritin is too small to sustain a permanent dipole moment, and the heat generated from magnetic forces is insufficient to open ion channels.In conclusion, the reported phenomena cannot be explained by the proposed mechanisms, and future hypotheses and molecular tools should be evaluated based on first principles. The physical laws governing magnetic fields and matter impose constraints on plausible biological mechanisms for both magnetosensation and magnetogenetics.
 This study investigated the neural basis for the strategy used by individuals with congenital amusia, who have unreliable pitch processing, to rely on other dimensions such as duration during speech perception. The study used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to scan 15 individuals with amusia and 15 controls while they matched spoken sentences with visually presented ones based on pitch, duration, or both. Functional connectivity was then examined using a data-driven approach to identify the largest group differences.Results revealed that individuals with amusia exhibited decreased functional connectivity between left frontal regions classically implicated in language processing and right hemisphere regions involved in pitch processing. Specifically, left frontal regions showed decreased connectivity with right hemisphere regions in the superior temporal gyrus and sulcus, Heschl's gyrus, and anterior insula. This decreased connectivity may relate to the unreliability of the amusics' perception and memory for pitch.The study also found that right inferior frontal cortex exhibited strongly decreased functional connectivity in the amusia group, and follow-up seed testing revealed that right auditory areas were involved as well. However, sites in left frontal cortex also showed large decreases in connectivity in amusia, most prominently with right hemisphere auditory areas.The null results for group differences in activation during speech processing are consistent with previous reports that amusics and controls do not differ in pitch representations within sensory regions. The findings suggest that amusia is a disorder related to structural and functional connectivity within the right hemisphere, particularly between right inferior frontal cortices and right posterior temporal cortex. The study's null results for group differences in activation during speech processing are consistent with previous reports that amusics and controls do not differ in pitch representations within sensory regions. The evidence above suggests that amusics neglect pitch because they have implicitly learned that their memory for pitch is unreliable, and that this down-weighting of pitch is reflected in decreased functional connectivity between right auditory areas and downstream task-relevant areas which integrate information from perceptual regions. Future directions include examining functional connectivity during perceptual categorization of consonant-vowel syllables as voiced versus unvoiced based on a pitch cue and a durational cue.
 NCOA4 is a selective cargo receptor for autophagic turnover of ferritin, a process critical for regulation of intracellular iron bioavailability. The molecular nature of the NCOA4-ferritin complex and the mechanisms controlling NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy have been investigated. Through analysis of the NCOA4-FTH1 interaction, it was demonstrated that direct association via a key surface arginine in FTH1 and a C-terminal element in NCOA4 is required for delivery of ferritin to the lysosome via autophagosomes. NCOA4 abundance is under dual control via autophagy and the ubiquitin proteasome system. Ubiquitin-dependent NCOA4 turnover is promoted by excess iron and involves an iron-dependent interaction between NCOA4 and the HERC2 ubiquitin ligase. NCOA4 plays an essential role in erythroid differentiation, and this work reveals the molecular underpinnings of NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy in cells and in an iron-dependent physiological setting.
 Listeria monocytogenes is a food-borne pathogen that can cause enteric infections and, in immunocompromised individuals, cross the blood–brain barrier and feto-placental barrier, leading to cases of meningitis and septicemia. To evade host immune responses, Listeria subverts various host cell functions, including post-translational modifications. One such modification is ISGylation, a process mediated by the interferon-stimulated ubiquitin-like protein ISG15.ISG15 is a linear di-ubiquitin-like molecule that can modify over 300 cellular proteins and function as a cytokine to induce interferon-γ production. Its role during bacterial infection remains elusive, but recent studies suggest that it can restrict Listeria infection both in vitro and in vivo.Upon Listeria infection, ISG15 expression is dramatically induced in nonphagocytic cells, and this induction can be type I interferon independent and dependent on the cytosolic surveillance pathway (CSP), which senses bacterial DNA and signals through STING, TBK1, IRF3, and IRF7. ISG15 expression restricts Listeria infection in vitro and in vivo, as shown by a decrease in bacterial load and an increase in cytokine secretion.ISG15-dependent restriction of Listeria infection is likely due to the modification of ER and Golgi proteins, leading to increased secretion of cytokines known to counteract infection. This novel function of ISG15 could also play a role in other bacterial and viral infections.In summary, ISG15 is a key component of the innate immune response to Listeria infection, and its expression is induced in a type I interferon-independent manner through the CSP. ISG15 restricts Listeria infection by modifying ER and Golgi proteins, leading to increased secretion of cytokines that counteract infection.
 The study investigates how early olfactory circuits in fruit flies process temporal variation of olfactory stimuli by examining the spike patterns of olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) and projection neurons (PNs) in response to precisely defined odor concentration waveforms. The results reveal that PNs strongly signal the OSN spike rate and its rate of change, and a simple two-dimensional (2D) model closely predicts the PN output when cascaded with the rate-of-change encoding by OSNs. This encoding mechanism allows animals to reliably respond to the onsets of odor concentrations in dynamic and intermittent environments. The study also highlights the importance of precisely measuring input stimuli and systematically exploring the input space for a rigorous understanding of sensory processing.
