 Fleas can transmit Yersinia pestis through early-phase transmission (EPT) and biofilm-dependent transmission (BDT). EPT occurs within the first week after an infectious blood meal, while BDT requires the formation of a stable biofilm in the proventriculus to interfere with normal blood flow during feeding. Recent studies have shed new light on both modes of transmission, and it is now proposed that they occur via regurgitation of bacteria from the proventriculus.The proventriculus is a primary site of infection and is often heavily colonized within a day after an infectious blood meal. The makeup of the proventricular bacterial aggregates can differ with different infectious blood sources, leading to an extension of initial proventricular infection forward into the esophagus and affecting EPT efficiency. Within 24 hours after ingesting bacteremic rat or guinea pig blood, Xenopsylla cheopis and Ornithodoros montana fleas often regurgitate some blood meal material containing Y. pestis into the esophagus (post-infection esophageal reflux, PIER). PIER-inducing blood sources affect early proventricular colonization in two ways: the presence of infected blood meal regurgitant in the esophagus and a more prominent and tenacious early colonization of the proventriculus. This leads to an increase in regurgitative pressure and enhances EPT efficiency.The data presented in this study support the regurgitative mechanism model for EPT and provide new details. Fleas with an initial heavy proventricular colonization are competent early-phase vectors because blood flow through the proventriculus is sufficiently restricted to result in reflux of blood mixed with bacteria back into the bite site. The results indicate that the efficiency of EPT is higher for fleas with PIER, and most of this increase is dependent on an intact hmsHFRS operon, which is required for Y. pestis to produce the poly-ß-1, 6-N-acetyl-D-glucosamine exopolysaccharide of a mature biofilm and for BDT. However, even with PIER, the early-phase foregut obstruction generates less regurgitative pressure than during later BDT. The CFU transmitted per flea by the later, biofilm-dependent mechanism can be orders of magnitude higher than by EPT.PIER occurs when accumulation of partially digested blood meal material and oxyhemoglobin crystal prevents the proventricular spines from overlapping and sealing off the midgut, and bacteria and blood debris are pushed into the esophagus by proventricular contractions and midgut peristalsis. The backward-directed proventricular spines that circle the lumen of the proventriculus are thought to partially or completely interlock, preventing backflow of blood into the esophagus. However, the flea midgut and proventriculus musculature continues to contract long after a blood meal, churning and passing the gut contents between the two compartments. The proventriculus of fleas that develop PIER appears to be enlarged because it is packed with bacteria, partially digested blood, and hemoglobin crystals that spread the proventricular spines farther apart. PIER appeared to inhibit normal post-feeding proventricular contractions to some degree, although midgut peristalsis still occurred.Metabolic activity of Y. pestis, in addition to bacterial aggregation and colonization of the proventriculus, is important for PIER induction. The data indicate that rat blood-based infections decrease the time required for O. montana to transition from EPT to BDT, resulting in temporal overlap of the two modes of transmission. The high vector competence of O. montana may in part account for the rapidity with which Y. pestis spread throughout the western United States after it was introduced shortly before the turn of the 20th century, particularly if ground squirrel blood is PIER-inducing. Future studies of vector competence using rodent blood obtained from other hosts susceptible to Y. pestis such as great gerbils, prairie dogs, and ground squirrels will provide valuable information for generating hypotheses about Y. pestis transmission dynamics during plague outbreaks.
 This study investigates the coevolution of endogenous retroviruses (ERVs) and their exogenous counterparts in sheep. The researchers identified a new ERV, enJSRV-26, which likely integrated in the sheep genome very recently and escapes JLR restriction induced by other transdominant ERVs. The findings suggest that the evolutionary antagonism between endogenous and exogenous betaretroviruses in sheep is an ongoing process. The study also highlights the importance of considering the presence of intact ERVs in the sheep genome when developing sheep-human chimeras for xenotransplantation.The researchers used the CHORI-243 sheep BAC library to identify and sequence 26 unique enJSRV proviruses, including two previously characterized ones. They found that enJSRV-26 is one of the "youngest" ERVs cloned to date, and it may result from intracellular retrotransposition or recombination of different proviruses. The researchers also showed that enJSRV-26 escapes JLR restriction by being able to replicate in tissues where enJSRVs are not expressed or are expressed at low abundance.The study provides substantial evidence for the coevolution of ERVs, exogenous retroviruses, and their natural host. The findings highlight the importance of considering the ongoing dynamic interactions between ERVs and their host in understanding their evolutionary roles. The researchers predict that the increased availability of genomic tools will lead to the discovery of more rare, recently integrated ERVs.
 The Drosophila embryonic gonad is assembled from two distinct cell types, Primordial Germ Cells (PGCs) and Somatic Gonadal Precursor cells (SGPs). PGCs form at the posterior of blastoderm stage embryos and are subsequently carried inside the embryo during gastrulation. To reach the SGPs, PGCs must traverse the midgut wall and then migrate through the mesoderm. A combination of local repulsive cues and attractive signals emanating from the SGPs guide migration.The hedgehog (hh) signaling pathway gene shifted (shf) plays a role in directing PGC migration. shf encodes a secreted protein that facilitates long-distance transmission of Hh through the proteoglycan matrix after it is released from basolateral membranes of Hh expressing cells in the wing imaginal disc. shf is expressed in the gonadal mesoderm, and loss- and gain-of-function experiments demonstrate that it is required for PGC migration.The hmgcr-dependent isoprenoid biosynthetic pathway plays a pivotal role in generating the PGC attractant both by the SGPs and by other tissues when hmgcr is ectopically expressed. shf production of this PGC attractant depends upon a second hh pathway gene gγ1. Furthermore, hmgcr potentiates Hh by cholesterol modification.Previous studies have shown that Hh signaling is crucial for patterning in a wide range of multicellular eukaryotes and has been implicated in cell migration, axonal guidance, and shaping polarized cellular extensions. In most contexts, Hh must be able to signal not only to nearby cells but also to cells located at a distance. Recent studies have uncovered an unusual mechanism for long-distance Hh signaling, which involves the transmission of Hh-Np from the basolateral membranes of sending cells.shf is expressed during embryogenesis but has no discernible patterning defects. However, ectopic shf can upregulate the hh→wingless (wg) →engrailed (en) autoregulatory loop, indicating that shf can potentiate hh signaling during embryogenesis. shf is preferentially expressed in the posterior mesoderm during the period when PGCs are migrating, and its pattern of expression is much broader than hmgcr, which is only expressed in a subset of mesodermal cells, the SGPs.To further investigate the role of shf in PGC migration, three different shf alleles were examined: shf2, shfx33, and shfEY03173. shf2 has a missense mutation in the third EGF repeat, replacing a conserved cysteine (Cys374) with a serine. shf2 flies are viable and fertile but display the typical shf wing phenotype. shfx33 is a null allele, and male shfx33 flies show stronger shf wing and eye phenotypes than shf2. shfEY03173 is a P-element insertion into the middle of the shf transcription unit and exhibits the shf wing and eye phenotypes and is semi-lethal.Early steps in PGC development from their formation through stage 12 are unaltered in shf embryos. However, migration phenotypes are evident by the end of stage 13. In wild-type embryos, all of the PGCs have migrated from the midgut to the mesoderm and are aligned with the SGPs. In shf mutants, a subset of the PGCs lingers behind on the outside surface of the midgut. A similar though more pronounced lingering phenotype is observed in hmgcr embryos. By the time of gonad covalence, over 40% of the shf embryos have 5 or more PGCs scattered in the posterior as compared to two or less for wild type.To further substantiate a role for shf in PGC migration, ectopic expression was used. Previous studies have shown that misexpression of genes that encode products involved in the production, release, or transmission of the attractant can disrupt the migration of PGCs towards the SGPs. shf was found to belong to this special group of genes, as ectopic expression using hh-GAL4 and ptc-GAL4 drivers caused disruptions in P
 This study extends a previous model of additive neurogenesis in the hippocampus to include realistic, spatially driven input firing patterns in the form of grid cells in the entorhinal cortex. The researchers confirmed that additive neurogenesis is a superior adaptation strategy compared to conventional synaptic plasticity or neuronal turnover. They also introduced a more sophisticated neurogenesis rule that incorporates both cell death and enhanced plasticity of new granule cells, which outperforms any one of the three individual strategies operating alone.The researchers focused on the interaction between the EC and DG layers, leaving the remaining layers of the hippocampal network implicit. The DG in their network encodes input patterns and forms a sparse, binary representation of the continuous, non-sparse EC input. They assumed that CA3 carries out a storage and retrieval function, and that CA1 decodes the retrieved pattern without modeling these processes explicitly.The neurogenesis rule has profound consequences for network performance. The researchers opted for a simple approach where new units are added if the average network performance falls below a given threshold and limited the average rate of neurogenesis to the experimentally observed long-term average of the maximum DG size per day. The additive neurogenesis rule could be more complicated, but the benefits of a properly functioning memory system are significant.The researchers also explored the decrease in neurogenesis over the lifetime of an animal, which may be due to the increasing generalization of the network, the statistics of the sampling of the ensemble of environments, or the level of cell proliferation in the hippocampus decreasing over time. They plan to investigate the relative contributions of other mechanisms to the decrease of neurogenesis over the lifetime of an animal in future work.The study provides an excellent starting point for a comparative analysis of neurogenesis in different species as more data become available. The findings on neurogenesis in rodents can be related to other species, but differences in adult neurogenesis between species are remarkable, and it is difficult to make firm conclusions about relative and absolute levels of neurogenesis in different species.
 This study aimed to identify novel cis-acting motifs that regulate gene expression in pluripotent stem cells by combining gene expression analysis, computational motif prediction, and biochemical validation. The researchers first compared the gene expression profiles of embryonic stem (ES) cells, primordial germ cells (PGCs), and various somatic cells using microarrays. They identified clusters of genes upregulated in ES cells and PGCs, which were enriched for nuclear activities related to cell cycle, DNA repair, transcription, and chromatin remodeling.To identify putative motifs shared among the pluripotency-associated gene cluster, the researchers used Affymetrix probe sets to extract upstream intergenic sequences from Ensembl and mapped them to the human, mouse, and rat genomes. They then used the MobyDick algorithm to build dictionaries of putative motifs and clustered them using the CAST clustering algorithm. They identified ten motif clusters that were significantly overrepresented in the pluripotency-associated gene cluster compared to a background contrast set.The researchers validated the activity of several novel motifs in mouse and human pluripotent stem cells by performing electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs) and identifying transcription factors that bind to those motifs. They identified NF-Y as a regulator of gene expression in ES cells that is required for their proliferation. The NF-Y binding site was detected as overrepresented in genomic regions bound by Oct4 and Sox2 in human ES cells.The study provides a basis for understanding the transcriptional regulatory networks that underlie early mammalian embryogenesis and ES cell self-renewal and pluripotency. The results demonstrate that the systematic analysis of cis-regulatory elements active in ES cells can lead to the identification of important transcription factors, such as NF-Y, that regulate ES cell proliferation.
 The current model of hepatitis C virus (HCV) production involves the assembly of virions on or near lipid droplets, envelopment at the ER in association with components of VLDL synthesis, and egress via the secretory pathway. However, the cellular requirements and mechanisms of HCV secretion are incomplete. To gain a detailed understanding of HCV egress, an RNA interference (RNAi) analysis was conducted in combination with live cell imaging of HCV core trafficking.RNAi studies identified multiple components of the secretory pathway, including ER to Golgi trafficking, lipid and protein kinases that regulate budding from the trans-Golgi network (TGN), VAMP1 vesicles and adaptor proteins, and the recycling endosome. The results support a model wherein HCV is infectious upon envelopment at the ER and exits the cell via the secretory pathway.Furthermore, an infectious HCV with a tetracysteine (TC) tag insertion in core (TC-core) was constructed to monitor the dynamics of HCV core trafficking in association with its cellular cofactors. TC-core traffics to the cell periphery along microtubules and this movement can be inhibited by nocodazole. Sub-populations of TC-core localize to the Golgi and co-traffic with components of the recycling endosome. Silencing of the recycling endosome component Rab11a results in the accumulation of HCV core at the Golgi. The majority of dynamic core traffics in association with apolipoprotein E (ApoE) and VAMP1 vesicles.In summary, this study identified many new host cofactors of HCV egress and presented dynamic studies of HCV core trafficking in infected cells. The findings suggest that HCV is infectious upon envelopment at the ER and exits the cell via the secretory pathway, specifically through the TGN to recycling endosomes to the plasma membrane.
 This study investigates the conformational behavior of two synthetic peptides, LK and EALA, with built-in secondary α-helical amphiphilicity, using molecular dynamics simulations. The peptides are neither random coils nor fully formed α-helices in bulk water but adopt multiple conformations and secondary structure elements with short lifetimes. The results suggest that intrinsically disordered peptides are not necessarily fully disordered and that a change in environmental conditions can alter the relative depths of the free-energy minima corresponding to these ensemble structures.The study also explores the influence of interfaces, both macroscopic and molecular, on the conformational behavior of the peptides. The macroscopic vacuum/water interface leads to a strong partitioning of hydrophobic/hydrophilic residues, which enforces a unique conformation by stabilizing the α-helical form for both model systems. The peptides' response to molecular interfaces presented by an aggregation partner in bulk water differs significantly. For LK, the molecular interface stabilizes the α-helical state, even at a dimer level. In contrast, EALA dimers adopt a broad distribution of transient secondary structural elements, including α-helical elements and β-sheet structures. The differences between LK, EALA, and AK can be linked to the peptides' inherent α-helical tendencies in bulk water, as well as their different balance of hydrophobic forces, electrostatic repulsion, and intra- and intermolecular hydrogen-bonding.The simulations also reveal interesting insights into the early stages of dimer formation, where the two molecules make their first contact via the extended tail of one of the molecules in its disordered state, suggesting that a certain degree of disorder may be advantageous for aggregation. The peptides' aggregation behavior is also strongly affected by the presence or absence of a macroscopic interface. While LK peptides aggregate less strongly at the vacuum/water interface compared to bulk water, two EALA molecules form very stable α-helical dimers at the vacuum/water interface. The different behavior of EALA can be linked to the distribution of surface charge and hydrophobicity, as well as strong intermolecular hydrogen bonds that further stabilize the dimer.The study was conducted using molecular dynamics simulations with the GROMACS simulation package and the GROMOS 54a7 force-field. The simulations were performed at neutral pH, with the lysine sidechains in LK protonated and the glutamic acid sidechains in EALA deprotonated. The systems were neutralized with chloride and sodium ions. The simulations were at least one microsecond long and were performed at 298 K in an isobaric-isothermal ensemble. The vacuum/water interface simulations were performed in the canonical (NVT) ensemble to maintain the shape of the box. The potential of mean force (PMF) calculations were performed using the umbrella sampling method, and solvent accessible surface area (SASA) calculations were performed using the g_sas tool of GROMACS.
 This study investigated the impact of influenza A virus (IAV) co-infection on the population bottlenecks of Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus) during colonization, disease, and transmission in an infant mouse model. The findings revealed that in the presence of IAV, pneumococci must pass through single cell bottlenecks during bloodstream invasion and transmission. These bottlenecks were not associated with genetic adaptation by the pathogen. The bottleneck in transmission occurred between bacterial exit from one host and establishment in another, explaining why the number of shed organisms in secretions is critical to overcoming it. The study demonstrated that viral infection and TLR-dependent innate immune responses stimulated by IAV drive bacterial contagion. The model identified vulnerable points in pneumococcal pathogenesis, which could be targeted for intervention strategies.
 HIV spreads efficiently through cell-cell contacts, and the relative importance of cell-cell transmission in natural infection and its vulnerability to inhibition by neutralizing antibodies and entry inhibitors remains unclear. In this study, the authors report on neutralizing antibody activity during cell-cell transmission using specifically tailored experimental strategies. They demonstrate that the activity of neutralizing monoclonal antibodies and entry inhibitors during cell-cell transmission varies depending on their mode of action. While gp41-directed agents remain active, CD4 binding site (CD4bs)-directed inhibitors, including the potent neutralizing mAb VRC01, dramatically lose potency during cell-cell transmission. This implies that CD4bs mAbs act preferentially through blocking free virus transmission while still allowing HIV to spread through cell-cell contacts, providing a plausible explanation for how HIV maintains infectivity and rapidly escapes potent and broadly active CD4bs-directed antibody responses in vivo. The study was conducted using PBMC infected with primary, replication competent (rc) virus isolates and TZM-bl cells as target cells. The authors found that cell-cell transmission between JR-FL infected PBMC and TZM-bl target cells was polycation independent, while cell-free infection by the R5 isolate JR-FL was dramatically reduced in the absence of polycations. They also found that the inhibitory potency of the gp120-directed tetrameric CD4-IgG2 molecule (PRO 542) and the gp41-directed fusion inhibitor T-20 against the isolate JR-FL in cell-free and cell-cell virus transmission varied. The study provides a necessary first step towards the definition of the in vivo relevance of the respective transmission modes and ensuing requirements for their inhibition by vaccine-induced antibody responses and entry inhibitors.
 This study proposes a novel statistical framework to evaluate the predictive performance of genetic risk models for complex diseases using a unifying approach. The framework is based on the liability threshold model, which assumes an underlying liability that is normally distributed, and connects various prediction indices, such as the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve, mean risk difference, net reclassification improvement (NRI), proportion of cases explained, variance of predicted risks, and risk at any percentile. The framework allows for the derivation of analytic formulas for these indices and the construction of graphs to visualize the performance of risk models. The results from simulations match well with the theoretical estimates, and the methodology is applied to nine complex diseases, evaluating the predictive power of genetic tests based on known susceptibility variants for each trait. The study demonstrates that the proposed framework provides a comprehensive and useful methodology for researchers to assess the predictive ability of sets of susceptibility loci. Programs to implement the methodology are available at <https://sites.google.com/site/honcheongso/software/pred-metrics>.
 The Saccharomyces cerevisiae RAD3 gene is the homolog of human XPD, an essential gene encoding a DNA helicase of the TFIIH complex involved in both nucleotide excision repair (NER) and transcription. Some mutant alleles of RAD3, such as rad3-101 and rad3-102, have partial defects in DNA repair and a strong hyper-recombination (hyper-Rec) phenotype. Previous studies showed that the hyper-Rec phenotype of rad3-101 and rad3-102 strains is due to persistent single-stranded DNA gaps that are converted to recombinogenic double-strand breaks (DSBs) by replication.To further characterize these events, a system was used to recover the reciprocal products of mitotic recombination. Both rad3-101 and rad3-102 elevate the frequency of reciprocal crossovers about 100-fold, and mapping of these events showed that three-quarters of these crossovers reflect DSBs formed at the same positions in both sister chromatids (double sister-chromatid breaks, DSCBs). The remaining crossovers reflect DSBs formed in single chromatids (single chromatid breaks, SCBs). The ratio of DSCBs to SCBs is similar to that observed for spontaneous recombination events in wild-type cells.Genomic alterations throughout the genome, including crossovers, gene conversions, deletions, and duplications, were mapped in 33 sectored colonies derived from the rad3-102 strain and 10 colonies derived from the rad3-101 strain. Results from these two strains were not significantly different. There was a significant association between the location of these recombination events and regions with elevated gamma-H2AX, a damage-associated histone modification. Additionally, there was a hotspot for deletions and duplications at the IMA2 and HXT11 genes near the left end of chromosome XV.The data suggest that a sub-set of spontaneous mitotic recombination events is initiated by incomplete NER reactions, and that DSCBs, which cannot be repaired by sister-chromatid recombination, are a major source of mitotic recombination between homologous chromosomes. The strains used in the analysis were derived from two sequence-diverged haploids, W303-1A and YJM789, and isogenic rad3-102 and rad3-101 diploids were generated by crossing these strains. Genomic DNA was isolated from cells and labeled with Cy5-dUTP and Cy3-dUTP, and hybridized to Agilent oligonucleotide SNP microarrays. The data were analyzed to determine the regions associated with the unselected LOH events and to examine the over-representation of various types of genomic elements. Nineteen different elements were examined, and the results were summarized in S5 Table.
 A proposed budget cut of $26.7 million from the CDC vector-borne diseases program in the 2011 U.S. fiscal year could significantly impact the country's ability to handle and manage mosquito-borne diseases such as dengue and West Nile virus. The elimination of mosquito surveillance could lead to increased management costs of epidemics by up to an order of magnitude compared to a strategy with sustained surveillance and early case detection.Using data from two dengue fever outbreaks in Cairns, Queensland, Australia, in 2003 and 2009, researchers estimated the basic reproductive number (R0) and effective reproduction number (Rt) of dengue transmission. R0 represents the average number of secondary cases after the introduction of an infection, while Rt represents the average number of secondary cases per primary case at a given time. Hypothetical epidemic curves were generated for each outbreak under different response times (res) of vector control activities to a dengue introduction.The study found that a response within 2 weeks of an introduction occurred only when active vector surveillance was in place, while delays in response of 6-8 weeks occurred when active disease and vector surveillance were eliminated. The cumulative cost of a strategy with active surveillance and a response time of 2 weeks was significantly lower than the cost of responding 4-6 weeks later. Delayed responses led to exponential increases in both the number of human cases and health costs.The findings provide a science-based justification for the re-assessment of the current proposal to slash the budget of the CDC vector-borne diseases program and emphasize the need for improved and sustainable systems for vector-borne disease surveillance. The costs to contain a dengue outbreak in a city with a climate comparable to Miami but with a smaller population would have been much higher than the proposed CDC budget cut. Without a strong human and vector surveillance system, detection and response to emerging vector-borne diseases could be severely impaired. The consequences of a delayed response to the West Nile Virus outbreak in New York City in 1999 serve as a clear example of the potential consequences of inadequate surveillance and response.The economic analysis provides strong evidence from an ethical, economic, and scientific standpoint for lawmakers to retain investments in this cost-effective preventive public health strategy. In fact, the analysis suggests the need for more, rather than less, funding for vector-borne disease surveillance. The probability of early detection of a vector-borne disease introduction or rapid interruption of transmission if an outbreak were to occur is a direct function of adequate funding for vector-borne disease research and surveillance.
 Insulator elements, such as the Fab-8 boundary element in Drosophila's Bithorax complex (BX-C), play a crucial role in regulating transcription by preventing inappropriate enhancer-promoter interactions. CTCF, a zinc-finger protein, is a well-studied enhancer blocking factor in vertebrates and has recently been characterized in Drosophila. In Drosophila, only one endogenous CTCF binding location has been identified, the Fab-8 insulator in the Abdominal-B locus in the BX-C. Chromatin immunopurification coupled with genomic microarray analysis was used to identify CTCF binding sites within representative regions of the Drosophila genome, including the 3-Mb Adh region, the BX-C, and the Antennapedia complex. CTCF binding sites identified in the BX-C precisely map to known insulator elements, Mcp, Fab-6, and Fab-8, and correlate with boundaries of regulatory domains, allowing the identification of three additional presumptive insulator elements, "Fab-2," "Fab-3," and "Fab-4." CTCF is directly associated with all known or predicted insulators in the BX-C, suggesting that the functioning of these insulators involves a common CTCF-dependent mechanism. Comparison of the locations of CTCF sites with characterized Polycomb target sites and histone modification provides support for the domain model of BX-C regulation.
 Ebolaviruses, such as Zaire ebolavirus (EBOV), possess longer genomes than most other non-segmented negative-strand RNA viruses due to long 5′ and 3′ untranslated regions (UTRs) present in their seven transcriptional units. The functions of these UTRs remain uncharacterized, but studies have demonstrated that the EBOV 5′-UTRs lack internal ribosomal entry site function but differentially regulate cap-dependent translation. The 5′-UTR derived from the viral polymerase (L) mRNA strongly suppresses translation of GFP compared to a β-actin 5′-UTR. This L 5′-UTR is one of four viral genes to possess upstream AUGs (uAUGs), and ablation of each uAUG enhances translation of the primary ORF (pORF), most dramatically in the case of the L 5′-UTR. The L uAUG is sufficient to initiate translation, is surrounded by a "weak" Kozak sequence, and suppresses pORF translation in a position-dependent manner. Under conditions where eIF2α is phosphorylated, the presence of the uORF maintains translation of the L pORF, indicating that the uORF modulates L translation in response to cellular stress. To directly address the role of the L uAUG in virus replication, a recombinant EBOV was generated in which the L uAUG was mutated to UCG. Strikingly, this mutation attenuated virus growth to titers 10-100-fold lower than a wild-type virus in Vero and A549 cells and exhibited decreased viral RNA synthesis as early as 6 hours post-infection and enhanced sensitivity to the stress inducer thapsigargin. These data suggest that the uORF in the EBOV L mRNA regulates polymerase expression in response to the status of the cellular innate immune response and is required for optimal virus replication.
 This study compared intracellular viral spread in paralytic and furious forms of rabies by determining the amount of rabies viral antigen beyond neuronal cell bodies at different central nervous system (CNS) levels. Ten naturally rabies-infected dogs were used, including five with the furious form and five with the paralytic form, all in the early stage of infection. Results showed that the percentage of antigen-positive area beyond neuronal cell bodies was greater in furious dogs than paralytic dogs at all 16 levels examined, reaching statistical significance in 10 of these levels. The regression model also demonstrated that for a given percentage of positive neurons, the percentage of antigen area beyond neuronal cell bodies was significantly greater in furious compared to paralytic rabies. The findings suggest that intracellular transport of the virus may be slower in the paralytic form, resulting in slower viral propagation. Possible mechanisms include host-specific differences in intracellular virus transport or cytokine-mediated effects. Previous studies have documented greater inflammation in the paralytic form, which could impede viral propagation to the hemispheres and result in a reduced viral burden in the paralytic dog brains. The study was carried out on post-mortem CNS specimens from dogs with rabies, and all immunostained slides were captured and quantitatively assessed using a computer-aided system for microscopic images.
 Replication fork integrity is essential for genome stability and is monitored by checkpoint-mediated phosphorylation events. Exonuclease 1 (Exo1) processes stalled replication forks in checkpoint-defective cells, and 14-3-3 proteins have been identified as in vivo interaction partners of Exo1 in both yeast and mammalian cells. In yeast, 14-3-3–deficient cells fail to induce Mec1–dependent Exo1 hyperphosphorylation and accumulate Exo1–dependent ssDNA gaps at stalled forks, leading to persistent checkpoint activation and exacerbated recovery defects. Moreover, 14-3-3 proteins promote fork progression under limiting nucleotide concentrations. The proposed mechanism involves 14-3-3 proteins assisting in controlling the phosphorylation status of Exo1 and additional unknown targets, promoting fork progression, stability, and restart in response to DNA replication stress.Exo1 is a Rad2 family DNA repair nuclease that acts redundantly with Rad27 in processing Okazaki fragments during DNA replication and is recruited to stalled replication forks where it counteracts fork reversal. Its activity is tightly controlled under DNA replication stress and DNA damage through post-translational modifications, including ATR- and ATM-dependent phosphorylation.14-3-3 proteins are highly conserved proteins that act as adaptors that integrate signals from different pathways. They can bind cruciform DNA and replication initiation proteins such as Mcm2 and Orc2. Upon DNA damage and DNA replication stress, 14-3-3 proteins are required for cell cycle restart, suppression of genomic instability, and viability. They also genetically and physically interact with the checkpoint protein Rad53 and the acetyltransferases and deacetylases Esa1 and Rpd3 upon replication perturbations.In this study, 14-3-3 proteins were identified as novel interaction partners of Exo1, and their regulation of Exo1 phosphorylation was demonstrated. The data showed that Exo1-dependent ssDNA gaps accumulate at stalled forks in yeast 14-3-3 deficient cells, causing persistent checkpoint activation and recovery defects. Additionally, 14-3-3 proteins control progression and stability of replication forks under conditions of limiting nucleotide availability. Overall, these data demonstrate that 14-3-3 proteins have a crucial role in regulating the function of proteins at stalled forks, among which Exo1 is a key target.
 Sindbis virus (SINV) is a mosquito-borne virus that causes polyarthritis and rash in humans. It is mainly found in tropical and sub-tropical countries, but in northern Europe, it is known to cause regularly reoccurring outbreaks every seven years. In central Sweden, a study was conducted to investigate the activity of SINV in vector mosquitoes and the abundance of these mosquitoes during the transmission season in the years before, during, and after an outbreak year.The study focused on the sibling enzootic vectors Culex torrentium and Culex pipiens, the potential enzootic vector Culiseta morsitans, and the bridge-vector Aedes cinereus. Mosquitoes were collected using Centres for Disease Control and Prevention Miniature Light Traps and identified based on morphological characters. SINV was detected in mosquitoes collected between July 30 and September 10, with the highest number of isolates obtained in 2002.The infection rate of SINV in mosquitoes varied between the two vector species groups and among the five vector species. The main enzootic vectors, Culex torrentium and Culex pipiens, showed the highest infection probability, while Aedes cinereus had a lower but still significant infection rate. The total number of SINV strains in vector mosquitoes was highest in 2002, and the infection rate in bridge-vectors alone (Aedes ssp.) was higher in 2002 than in other years.The study also found that the annual abundance of Culex torrentium/pipiens showed a marginal significant positive correlation with MLE-IRx, t, i in Aedes rossicus. The biweekly abundance of Culex torrentium/pipiens varied between 0.1 and 8.9 per trap-night, with little variation among or within years, except for a sharp increase to 8.9 per trap-night in week 31, 2002. The biweekly abundance of Culiseta morsitans varied between 0.1 and 3.5 per trap-night, with an annual peak of activity in late August. SINV isolates from Culiseta morsitans were only obtained in August 2002. The biweekly abundance of Aedes cinereus varied within season, and the peak abundance was rather similar between the years studied but with variable timing.The results suggest that increased SINV-I prevalence in the bridge-vector Aedes cinereus and in the enzootic vectors Culex torrentium/pipiens constitute valuable outbreak markers for further scrutinizing the hypothesized seven-year cycle of SINV-I outbreaks and the mechanisms behind. The study provides evidence for the importance of monitoring mosquito populations and identifying the presence of SINV in vector mosquitoes to predict and prevent outbreaks of SINV polyarthritis and rash in northern Europe.
 In this study, the authors used an ecological genomic approach to investigate the genetic basis of the indirect effect of bacterial community responses on nematode community structure in grassland soils. They focused on the genomic responses of microbial-feeding nematodes to possible changes within the grassland microbial environment. The hypothesis was that an examination of differential gene expression in different environments may reveal the genetic basis of the observed nematode community response.The authors isolated bacteria from grassland prairie soils using Caenorhabditis elegans as a model nematode, as related nematodes from the same family (Rhabditidae) are found in the soil. They found that the fitness and lifespan of wild-type C. elegans differed significantly in the different bacterial environments. The absolute fitness of wild-type animals was highest when grown on Pseudomonas sp., followed by E. coli, B. megaterium, and M. luteus. The lifespan of wild-type animals was also affected by the bacterial environment, with wild-type animals having lower TD50 values when grown on M. luteus and longer lifespans when grown on Pseudomonas sp. and B. megaterium.To further investigate the relationship between gene expression and phenotypic effects, the authors performed functional tests on multiple aspects of life history, including brood size, generation time, absolute fitness, and lifespan, for all four bacterial environments. They found that many of the mutations had effects on life history traits and differed significantly from wild type in a given bacterial environment. While the majority of mutant strains tested had decreased fitness compared to wild type in each environment, surprisingly, a few mutant strains showed increased fitness when grown on E. coli, M. luteus, and Pseudomonas sp. The authors also found that more mutant strains had increased fitness in the B. megaterium environment as compared to wild type than had reduced fitness.The authors also tested whether differential gene expression between environments had predictive power for the mutational effects on life history traits in those environments. They found a correlation between mutant lifespan and differential expression of genes in comparisons of bacterial environments. The correlation was strongest for genes that were up-regulated in an environment and positively regulated lifespan, as loss or reduction of that gene function would cause a reduction in fitness or lifespan in that environment. The results demonstrate that transcriptional profiling identified genes of functional importance in each bacterial environment.
 Centromeres are essential structures that connect chromosomes to the spindle during cell division. The attachment points between the genome and the cytoskeleton are marked by centromeric histone H3 (CENH3) and a complex of proteins called the kinetochore. Centromeres have diagnostic repeats, but their replication is epigenetic and independent of DNA sequence. Maize CENPC, a key inner kinetochore protein, has both DNA-binding and RNA-binding capacities. The DNA/RNA-binding domain is localized to the exon duplication region, and RNA directly facilitates the binding of CENPC to DNA in vitro. The data suggest that CENPC and RNA are a part of the template that directs CENH3 to newly replicated centromere DNA. CENPC is a non-specific DNA binding protein in vitro, but it targets centromeres independently of DNA sequence. In vitro gel shift assays using double-stranded CentC DNA as the binding substrate showed that CENPC binds to CentC with increasing efficiency as DNA length increases and that RNA promotes the formation of a larger supershifted product. The data suggest that CENPC and RNA work together to ensure accurate centromere replication.
 The human genome is diploid, meaning individuals inherit one set of chromosomes paternally and one homologous set maternally. Most human genome sequencing initiatives neglect this fact, as directly delineating the nucleotide content of maternal and paternal copies of chromosomes (phasing) is costly and complex. Eleven approaches to phase the NA12878 genome were compared, including laboratory-based methods and computational strategies. Laboratory-based methods, such as 10X Genomics, CPT-seq, fosmid sequencing, and Moleculo, build haplotypic contigs from DNA sequencing reads or use unique laboratory-based approaches. Computational methods, like Beagle, Eagle2, SHAPEIT, and HapCUT, leverage population-based strategies using reference panels or a combination of sequence read- and population-based constructs. The results suggest that a large comprehensive reference panel, such as the HRC, greatly enhances phasing performance, and population-based phasing can be significantly improved with family trio data. Laboratory-based methods are more expensive and complex, but the continuous reduction in sequencing costs may favor a familial approach for improving the performance of computational phasing methods. The best improvement to population phasing performance was the addition of parental genotype data, which resulted in a 10-fold reduction of errors and a 10-fold increase in haplotype block lengths. A majority voting approach was proposed to combine phasing strategies and build consensus from multiple predicted haplotypes. Traditional strategies to phase genomes by sequencing parents or relatives are also gaining popularity due to their ability to validate de novo or private mutations in clinical contexts. However, the cost-effectiveness of these methods depends on the availability of relatives and the continuous reduction in sequencing costs. The fosmid pool sequencing dataset was compared with the NA12878 GIAB gold standard and other phasing approaches using the liftOver tool. The fosmid-based phasing result for the European individual 'Max Planck One' from a previous study was also mentioned for additional comparison. The analyses focused on phasing performance for the autosomal chromosomes but raised some important questions, including the accuracy of the results relying on the NIST-GIAB gold standard variants used, the optimization of results obtained by relevant research teams, and the lack of consideration of short insertion-deletion polymorphisms (indels) and structural variants such as moderate to large indels, copy number variants (CNVs), inversions, or other forms of structural variations. Ultimately, the ability to phase human genomes using fast and low-cost computational approaches will push diploid genome analysis to a new level.
 In contrast to HIV infection in humans and SIV in macaques, SIV infection in natural hosts, including sooty mangabeys (SM), is non-pathogenic despite robust virus replication. A novel SM CCR5 allele containing a two base pair deletion (Δ2) that encodes a truncated molecule not expressed on the cell surface and does not support SIV entry in vitro was identified. This allele was present at a 26% frequency in a large SM colony, along with a 3% frequency for a CCR5Δ24 deletion allele that also abrogates surface expression. CD8+ and CD4+ T cells displayed a gradient of CCR5 expression across genotype groups, which was highly significant for CD8+ cells. Remarkably, the prevalence of natural SIVsmm infection was not significantly different in animals lacking functional CCR5 compared to heterozygous and homozygous wild-type animals. Furthermore, animals lacking functional CCR5 had robust plasma viral loads, which were only modestly lower than wild-type animals. SIVsmm primary isolates infected both homozygous mutant and wild-type PBMC in a CCR5-independent manner in vitro, and Envs from both CCR5-null and wild-type infected animals used CXCR6, GPR1, and GPR15 in addition to CCR5 in transfected cells. These data indicate that SIVsmm relies on CCR5-independent entry pathways in SM that are homozygous for defective CCR5 alleles, and while the extent of alternative coreceptor use in SM with CCR5 wild-type alleles is uncertain, strongly suggest that SIVsmm tropism and host cell targeting in vivo is defined by the distribution and use of alternative entry pathways in addition to CCR5. SIVsmm entry through alternative pathways in vivo raises the possibility of novel CCR5-negative target cells that may be more expendable than CCR5+ cells and enable the virus to replicate efficiently without causing disease in the face of extremely restricted CCR5 expression seen in SM and several other natural host species. HIV-1 emergence into the human population resulted from cross-species transmission of SIVcpz from chimpanzees, which itself resulted from transmission and subsequent recombination of SIVs infecting primates on which chimpanzees prey. Similarly, both simian AIDS caused by SIVmac/smm in rhesus macaques and HIV-2 infection of humans originated from cross-species transmission of SIVsmm from naturally infected sooty mangabeys. Infection in natural host species is typically non-progressive, and the benign nature of SM infection in vivo is not due to overall restricted viral replication, as both nonpathogenic natural host and pathogenic nonnatural host infections are characterized by robust viremia. Understanding natural host infection has become a high priority for identifying key features of infection in vivo that regulate pathogenesis and, potentially, identify opportunities to modulate disease apart from or in addition to suppressing overall virus replication through pharmacologic or immune mechanisms. HIV and SIV entry into target cells is initiated by binding of the viral envelope glycoprotein (Env) to cell surface CD4, followed by structural changes that enable interactions with a seven transmembrane G protein coupled cell surface receptor that then triggers fusion. HIV-1 isolates use CCR5 or CXCR4 or both, and in vitro use other molecules infrequently. The restricted expression of CCR5 mainly on memory CD4+ T cells, but broader expression of CXCR4 on both memory and naïve subsets, is thought in part to underlie the accelerated disease progression seen in individuals in whom CXCR4-using HIV-1 variants emerge late in the course of infection. In contrast, sooty mangabeys express very low levels of CCR5 on their CD4+ T cells, a mechanism by which replication might be regulated in vivo and restrict transmission and pathogenesis. However, most strains of SIV use a number of other alternative coreceptors in in vitro assays, such as CXCR6 (STRL33), the orphan receptors GPR1 and GPR15, and several others. Despite the efficient use of alternative entry pathways by SIVmac and SIVsmm isolates in transfected cells, infection and cell targeting in vivo is generally thought to be dependent on CCR5. However, the proportion of CD4+ T cells depleted and/or
 This study investigates the link between insulin signaling, reproduction, and attractiveness in Drosophila melanogaster. Previous research showed that global activation of insulin signaling increases attractiveness in flies, but the mechanism was unclear. The study focused on tissue-specific effects, as oenocytes, which produce attractiveness cues, did not show insulin signaling influence on attractiveness. Late follicle cells, which may be a source of insulin-dependent attractiveness cues, showed increased attractiveness and reproductive function with insulin signaling upregulation. Conversely, the fat body, which interacts closely with oenocytes and the ovary, showed opposite effects on attractiveness when insulin signaling was manipulated. Vitellogenic ovaries were necessary for global and fat body insulin signaling manipulations to influence attractiveness. The study suggests that insulin-dependent attractiveness cues are determined cell non-autonomously by integration of nutrient-sensing pathway activities from different tissues, and reproductive effort reflected in late-stage follicle cells may constitute one potential mechanism of honesty and reliability in this system of mate choice. The study also proposes a model in which an attractiveness signal originates in the ovary following an increase in insulin signaling in late follicle cells, which signals to the fat body to increase its insulin resistance, establishing a positive feedback loop with the ovary. Future research will identify the molecule carrying attractiveness signals between tissues and understand how they are influenced by internal and external perturbations.
 This study reports on a mouse model of triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), which is a subtype of breast cancer characterized by the absence of estrogen receptor (ESR1), progesterone receptor (PGR), and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) expression. TNBCs are often associated with the Basal-like molecular subtype, which is defined by the expression of specific genes and molecular pathways. The Basal-like subtype is further divided into the Basal-like and Claudin-low subtypes, which share some similarities but also have distinct features.The study uses a mouse model with engineered inactivation of the Rb, p53, and Brca1 tumor suppressor pathways in mammary epithelial cells. The results show that concomitant inactivation of all three pathways leads to highly penetrant, malignant carcinomas with an additive effect on tumor latency. The study also finds that Brca1 inactivation accelerates tumor development and shifts the tumor spectrum towards features of both Basal-like and Claudin-low subtypes.The mouse model displays several characteristics of human TNBCs, including rapid tumor progression, poor differentiation, distant metastasis, necrosis, metaplasia, and genomic instability. The study also identifies potential collaborating oncogenic events, including recurrent losses of large regions spanning chr4 and chr10, which harbor many potential tumor suppressors and effectors of cell death.The findings from this study provide valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms of TNBC development and offer an invaluable preclinical platform for identifying and assessing potential therapeutics for aggressive and chemoresistant breast cancer subtypes. The study was performed in accordance with ethical guidelines for animal research.
 Legionella pneumophila, a gram-negative bacterium found in freshwater environments, infects eukaryotic cells by translocating effector proteins into the host cytoplasm using the type IV secretion system. These effector proteins manipulate host cellular processes to facilitate infection. One such effector, LubX, functions as a U-box-type E3 ubiquitin ligase that targets another effector, SidH, for degradation by the host proteasome. Delayed delivery of LubX to the host cytoplasm results in the shutdown of SidH within the host cells at later stages of infection. This demonstrates a sophisticated level of coevolution between L. pneumophila and eukaryotic cells, with LubX acting as a key regulator to temporally coordinate the function of a cognate effector protein. SidH is a target of LubX, and their interaction is specific and direct, leading to the polyubiquitination and degradation of SidH in the host cytosol. This discovery of a bacterial effector that regulates another effector within the host cell is the first example of a "metaeffector." Future studies will reveal that some bacterial effectors implicated in manipulation of the host ubiquitin system possess regulatory functions as metaeffector that coordinate the expression of effector functions spatiotemporally.
 This study investigates the importance of correcting assumptions commonly made in the analysis of time-series transcriptome data for the inference of regulatory interactions and quantitative gene regulation functions. The two main assumptions questioned are that transcriptome data alone are sufficient to capture the time-varying state of gene expression and that gene regulation can be reduced to the action of transcription factors and other specific regulators. The authors propose an integrated experimental and computational approach using new controls for transcriptome experiments, mathematical models, and computational procedures to reconstruct protein concentrations and integrate global physiological effects into the network inference process. The results demonstrate that the inclusion of global physiological effects and realistic half-lives leads to improved inference results, particularly for regulatory proteins with more typical half-lives. The approach has broad applicability for analyzing time-series transcriptome data and improving network inference in various organisms.
 This systematic review and meta-analysis assessed patterns and dynamics of soil-transmitted helminth (STH) reinfection after drug treatment. From 154 studies identified, 51 were included, and 24 provided STH infection rates pre- and post-treatment. At 3, 6, and 12 months post-treatment, Ascaris lumbricoides, Trichuris trichiura, and hookworm prevalence reached 26%, 36%, and 30% of pretreatment levels, respectively. Prevalence and intensity of reinfection were positively correlated with pretreatment infection status. STH reinfections occur rapidly after treatment, particularly for A. lumbricoides and T. trichiura. Preventive chemotherapy with current drugs of choice against STHs reduces morbidity but does not prevent reinfection. Decision-makers must consider benefits, costs, acceptability, and harms of preventive chemotherapy and adopt integrated control approaches, including health education, sanitation improvement, and behavior change, for more durable control of STH infections.
 The article discusses the importance of post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) in preventing rabies, but the lack of accessibility and affordability of rabies vaccines and biologicals, particularly in resource-poor countries where most human rabies deaths occur. The authors analyzed different PEP vaccination regimens and their costs and benefits, finding that ID administration is more cost-effective than IM administration and uses less vaccine. They also propose financing mechanisms to make PEP more affordable and accessible. The authors conclude that a universal switch to ID delivery would improve the affordability and accessibility of PEP, leading to a likely reduction in human rabies deaths and being economical for healthcare providers. The article also discusses the implications for cost recuperation and the importance of reducing the burden of rabies through increased availability of vaccines for the rural poor.
 Uganda is home to active foci of both chronic and acute Human African Trypanosomiasis (HAT), with the acute form expanding from its traditional disease focus in southeast Uganda and posing a significant risk to human health. Cattle act as long-term reservoirs of human-infective Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense, showing few signs of morbidity but posing a risk to human health. This study examines the relationship between human T. b. rhodesiense infection and human infective and non-human T. brucei s.l. circulating in cattle at village level in Kaberamaido and Dokolo Districts, Uganda.The study found that villages with reported sleeping sickness cases had a significant effect on the odds of T. brucei s.l. infection in cattle, with higher odds in case villages. Cattle age also had a significant effect, with older cattle showing higher odds of infection. Village sleeping sickness status, cattle age, and cattle condition score were retained as fixed effects in the final multivariable model for the 12 study villages in Dokolo and Kaberamaido.The results demonstrate a clear link between outbreaks of sleeping sickness in a village and the prevalence of T. brucei s.l. and T. b. rhodesiense in the cattle of that village herd. Establishing the extent of the reservoir of human-infective T. b. rhodesiense parasites in cattle not only provides an indicator of risk to the human population in the affected districts but also permits appraisal of the risk of the disease spreading to neighboring districts.The study highlights the importance of understanding the relationship between infected cattle and infected individuals to make an appropriate response to the risk posed to the community from animals infected with human pathogens in a village setting. Control of infection in the animal reservoir through appropriate veterinary intervention with effective cross-talk between relevant Ministries could realize the value of a One Health Approach for zoonotic disease control.
 Dietary restriction (DR) is a well-known intervention that extends lifespan and delays age-related diseases in various species. Previous studies have shown that the target of rapamycin (TOR) pathway is essential for DR-induced longevity in flies, yeast, and worms. TOR is a conserved protein kinase that regulates growth and metabolism in response to nutrients and growth factors. In C. elegans, the TOR pathway modulates lifespan, but it is still unclear whether TOR affects DR-mediated lifespan extension.Recent studies have identified HIF-1 as a target of the TOR pathway in mammalian cells, and it is also a regulator of lifespan in C. elegans. HIF-1 is a transcription factor complex that plays key roles in oxygen homeostasis, tumor formation, glucose metabolism, cell survival, and inflammatory response. In C. elegans, hif-1 mutants extend lifespan under rich nutrient conditions but fail to show lifespan extension under DR. Conversely, a mutation in egl-9, which increases HIF-1 activity, diminishes the lifespan extension under DR. This deficiency is rescued by tissue-specific expression of egl-9 in specific neurons and muscles.The lifespan extension by hif-1 or DR is dependent on the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress regulator inositol-requiring protein-1 (IRE-1) and is associated with lower levels of ER stress. Therefore, the results demonstrate a tissue-specific role for HIF-1 in the lifespan extension by DR involving the IRE-1 ER stress pathway.The TOR pathway has been shown to play important roles in DR-dependent lifespan extension in D. melanogaster and S. cerevisiae. Our study underscores the importance of the TOR-S6K pathway as a conserved mediator of lifespan extension by DR in multiple species.Previous studies have identified key regulators of DR-dependent lifespan extension, including transcription factors PHA-4, SKN-1, HSF-1, and the cellular energy homeostasis regulator AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). It is very likely that the maximal lifespan extension by DR is not achieved by regulating a single genetic pathway but that multiple pathways act together to mediate the lifespan effect of DR.Our study suggests an important role for HIF-1 as an oncogene in the context of aging and nutrient sensing, which are both key risk factors in tumor formation. HIF-1 overexpression is frequently detected in various tumors due to intratumoral hypoxia and genetic mutations. HIF-1 owes its oncogenic properties to pleiotropic effects on a variety of cellular processes, including survival under hypoxia, angiogenesis, metastasis, and glucose metabolism. Inhibition of HIF-1 has been proven to be an efficient way to prevent tumor growth, and HIF-1 is being extensively studied as an important target in cancer therapy. Our study suggests an important role for HIF-1 as an oncogene in the context of aging and nutrient sensing.In summary, our study provides new insights into the role of HIF-1 in DR-dependent lifespan extension and its potential role as an oncogene in the context of aging and nutrient sensing. The findings may help explain how protein homeostasis determines lifespan and age-related diseases.
 The study describes the reconstruction and deployment of the first genome-scale metabolic and gene expression (ME) model for the acetogen Clostridium ljungdahlii. The ME-model, named iJL965-ME, captures all major central metabolic, amino acid, nucleotide, lipid, major cofactors, and vitamin synthesis pathways, as well as transcription, translation, macromolecule modifications, and translocation reactions. The model accurately predicted secretion of acetate, ethanol, and glycerol during changing carbon and metal availability and revealed how protein allocation and media composition influence metabolic pathways and energy conservation in this model acetogen. The ME-model also predicted substrate-specific growth rates with high accuracy and identified unique in silico maximum growth rates for individual substrates. Unlike the M-model, iJL965-ME predicted previously unknown secretion of glycerol following acetate and ethanol production during growth on xylose or glucose but not on arginine, pyruvate, or CO. The ME-model's ability to predict gene/subsystem expression was highly comparable to in vivo transcriptomics for three separate conditions, bolstering confidence in predicting macromolecular responses to environmental changes. The study also explored C1 metabolism under both autotrophic and mixotrophic conditions and the potential of controlling WLP activity through media composition. The findings provide important insights into the metabolism of acetogens and invite further studies elucidating specific effects of concurrent metal limitations and genetic perturbations.
