 Fleas can transmit Yersinia pestis through early-phase transmission (EPT) and biofilm-dependent transmission (BDT). EPT occurs within the first week after an infectious blood meal, while BDT requires the formation of a stable biofilm in the proventriculus to interfere with normal blood flow during feeding. Recent studies have shed new light on both modes of transmission, and it is now proposed that they occur via regurgitation of bacteria from the proventriculus.The proventriculus is a primary site of infection and is often heavily colonized within a day after an infectious blood meal. The makeup of the proventricular bacterial aggregates can differ with different infectious blood sources, leading to an extension of initial proventricular infection forward into the esophagus and affecting EPT efficiency. Within 24 hours after ingesting bacteremic rat or guinea pig blood, Xenopsylla cheopis and Ornithodoros montana fleas often regurgitate some blood meal material containing Y. pestis into the esophagus (post-infection esophageal reflux, PIER). PIER-inducing blood sources affect early proventricular colonization in two ways: the presence of infected blood meal regurgitant in the esophagus and a more prominent and tenacious early colonization of the proventriculus. This leads to an increase in regurgitative pressure and enhances EPT efficiency.The data presented in this study support the regurgitative mechanism model for EPT and provide new details. Fleas with an initial heavy proventricular colonization are competent early-phase vectors because blood flow through the proventriculus is sufficiently restricted to result in reflux of blood mixed with bacteria back into the bite site. The results indicate that the efficiency of EPT is higher for fleas with PIER, and most of this increase is dependent on an intact hmsHFRS operon, which is required for Y. pestis to produce the poly-ß-1, 6-N-acetyl-D-glucosamine exopolysaccharide of a mature biofilm and for BDT. However, even with PIER, the early-phase foregut obstruction generates less regurgitative pressure than during later BDT. The CFU transmitted per flea by the later, biofilm-dependent mechanism can be orders of magnitude higher than by EPT.PIER occurs when accumulation of partially digested blood meal material and oxyhemoglobin crystal prevents the proventricular spines from overlapping and sealing off the midgut, and bacteria and blood debris are pushed into the esophagus by proventricular contractions and midgut peristalsis. The backward-directed proventricular spines that circle the lumen of the proventriculus are thought to partially or completely interlock, preventing backflow of blood into the esophagus. However, the flea midgut and proventriculus musculature continues to contract long after a blood meal, churning and passing the gut contents between the two compartments. The proventriculus of fleas that develop PIER appears to be enlarged because it is packed with bacteria, partially digested blood, and hemoglobin crystals that spread the proventricular spines farther apart. PIER appeared to inhibit normal post-feeding proventricular contractions to some degree, although midgut peristalsis still occurred.Metabolic activity of Y. pestis, in addition to bacterial aggregation and colonization of the proventriculus, is important for PIER induction. The data indicate that rat blood-based infections decrease the time required for O. montana to transition from EPT to BDT, resulting in temporal overlap of the two modes of transmission. The high vector competence of O. montana may in part account for the rapidity with which Y. pestis spread throughout the western United States after it was introduced shortly before the turn of the 20th century, particularly if ground squirrel blood is PIER-inducing. Future studies of vector competence using rodent blood obtained from other hosts susceptible to Y. pestis such as great gerbils, prairie dogs, and ground squirrels will provide valuable information for generating hypotheses about Y. pestis transmission dynamics during plague outbreaks.
 This study investigates the coevolution of endogenous retroviruses (ERVs) and their exogenous counterparts in sheep. The researchers identified a new ERV, enJSRV-26, which likely integrated in the sheep genome very recently and escapes JLR restriction induced by other transdominant ERVs. The findings suggest that the evolutionary antagonism between endogenous and exogenous betaretroviruses in sheep is an ongoing process. The study also highlights the importance of considering the presence of intact ERVs in the sheep genome when developing sheep-human chimeras for xenotransplantation.The researchers used the CHORI-243 sheep BAC library to identify and sequence 26 unique enJSRV proviruses, including two previously characterized ones. They found that enJSRV-26 is one of the "youngest" ERVs cloned to date, and it may result from intracellular retrotransposition or recombination of different proviruses. The researchers also showed that enJSRV-26 escapes JLR restriction by being able to replicate in tissues where enJSRVs are not expressed or are expressed at low abundance.The study provides substantial evidence for the coevolution of ERVs, exogenous retroviruses, and their natural host. The findings highlight the importance of considering the ongoing dynamic interactions between ERVs and their host in understanding their evolutionary roles. The researchers predict that the increased availability of genomic tools will lead to the discovery of more rare, recently integrated ERVs.
 The Drosophila embryonic gonad is assembled from two distinct cell types, Primordial Germ Cells (PGCs) and Somatic Gonadal Precursor cells (SGPs). PGCs form at the posterior of blastoderm stage embryos and are subsequently carried inside the embryo during gastrulation. To reach the SGPs, PGCs must traverse the midgut wall and then migrate through the mesoderm. A combination of local repulsive cues and attractive signals emanating from the SGPs guide migration.The hedgehog (hh) signaling pathway gene shifted (shf) plays a role in directing PGC migration. shf encodes a secreted protein that facilitates long-distance transmission of Hh through the proteoglycan matrix after it is released from basolateral membranes of Hh expressing cells in the wing imaginal disc. shf is expressed in the gonadal mesoderm, and loss- and gain-of-function experiments demonstrate that it is required for PGC migration.The hmgcr-dependent isoprenoid biosynthetic pathway plays a pivotal role in generating the PGC attractant both by the SGPs and by other tissues when hmgcr is ectopically expressed. shf production of this PGC attractant depends upon a second hh pathway gene gγ1. Furthermore, hmgcr potentiates Hh by cholesterol modification.Previous studies have shown that Hh signaling is crucial for patterning in a wide range of multicellular eukaryotes and has been implicated in cell migration, axonal guidance, and shaping polarized cellular extensions. In most contexts, Hh must be able to signal not only to nearby cells but also to cells located at a distance. Recent studies have uncovered an unusual mechanism for long-distance Hh signaling, which involves the transmission of Hh-Np from the basolateral membranes of sending cells.shf is expressed during embryogenesis but has no discernible patterning defects. However, ectopic shf can upregulate the hh→wingless (wg) →engrailed (en) autoregulatory loop, indicating that shf can potentiate hh signaling during embryogenesis. shf is preferentially expressed in the posterior mesoderm during the period when PGCs are migrating, and its pattern of expression is much broader than hmgcr, which is only expressed in a subset of mesodermal cells, the SGPs.To further investigate the role of shf in PGC migration, three different shf alleles were examined: shf2, shfx33, and shfEY03173. shf2 has a missense mutation in the third EGF repeat, replacing a conserved cysteine (Cys374) with a serine. shf2 flies are viable and fertile but display the typical shf wing phenotype. shfx33 is a null allele, and male shfx33 flies show stronger shf wing and eye phenotypes than shf2. shfEY03173 is a P-element insertion into the middle of the shf transcription unit and exhibits the shf wing and eye phenotypes and is semi-lethal.Early steps in PGC development from their formation through stage 12 are unaltered in shf embryos. However, migration phenotypes are evident by the end of stage 13. In wild-type embryos, all of the PGCs have migrated from the midgut to the mesoderm and are aligned with the SGPs. In shf mutants, a subset of the PGCs lingers behind on the outside surface of the midgut. A similar though more pronounced lingering phenotype is observed in hmgcr embryos. By the time of gonad covalence, over 40% of the shf embryos have 5 or more PGCs scattered in the posterior as compared to two or less for wild type.To further substantiate a role for shf in PGC migration, ectopic expression was used. Previous studies have shown that misexpression of genes that encode products involved in the production, release, or transmission of the attractant can disrupt the migration of PGCs towards the SGPs. shf was found to belong to this special group of genes, as ectopic expression using hh-GAL4 and ptc-GAL4 drivers caused disruptions in P
 This study extends a previous model of additive neurogenesis in the hippocampus to include realistic, spatially driven input firing patterns in the form of grid cells in the entorhinal cortex. The researchers confirmed that additive neurogenesis is a superior adaptation strategy compared to conventional synaptic plasticity or neuronal turnover. They also introduced a more sophisticated neurogenesis rule that incorporates both cell death and enhanced plasticity of new granule cells, which outperforms any one of the three individual strategies operating alone.The researchers focused on the interaction between the EC and DG layers, leaving the remaining layers of the hippocampal network implicit. The DG in their network encodes input patterns and forms a sparse, binary representation of the continuous, non-sparse EC input. They assumed that CA3 carries out a storage and retrieval function, and that CA1 decodes the retrieved pattern without modeling these processes explicitly.The neurogenesis rule has profound consequences for network performance. The researchers opted for a simple approach where new units are added if the average network performance falls below a given threshold and limited the average rate of neurogenesis to the experimentally observed long-term average of the maximum DG size per day. The additive neurogenesis rule could be more complicated, but the benefits of a properly functioning memory system are significant.The researchers also explored the decrease in neurogenesis over the lifetime of an animal, which may be due to the increasing generalization of the network, the statistics of the sampling of the ensemble of environments, or the level of cell proliferation in the hippocampus decreasing over time. They plan to investigate the relative contributions of other mechanisms to the decrease of neurogenesis over the lifetime of an animal in future work.The study provides an excellent starting point for a comparative analysis of neurogenesis in different species as more data become available. The findings on neurogenesis in rodents can be related to other species, but differences in adult neurogenesis between species are remarkable, and it is difficult to make firm conclusions about relative and absolute levels of neurogenesis in different species.
 This study aimed to identify novel cis-acting motifs that regulate gene expression in pluripotent stem cells by combining gene expression analysis, computational motif prediction, and biochemical validation. The researchers first compared the gene expression profiles of embryonic stem (ES) cells, primordial germ cells (PGCs), and various somatic cells using microarrays. They identified clusters of genes upregulated in ES cells and PGCs, which were enriched for nuclear activities related to cell cycle, DNA repair, transcription, and chromatin remodeling.To identify putative motifs shared among the pluripotency-associated gene cluster, the researchers used Affymetrix probe sets to extract upstream intergenic sequences from Ensembl and mapped them to the human, mouse, and rat genomes. They then used the MobyDick algorithm to build dictionaries of putative motifs and clustered them using the CAST clustering algorithm. They identified ten motif clusters that were significantly overrepresented in the pluripotency-associated gene cluster compared to a background contrast set.The researchers validated the activity of several novel motifs in mouse and human pluripotent stem cells by performing electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSAs) and identifying transcription factors that bind to those motifs. They identified NF-Y as a regulator of gene expression in ES cells that is required for their proliferation. The NF-Y binding site was detected as overrepresented in genomic regions bound by Oct4 and Sox2 in human ES cells.The study provides a basis for understanding the transcriptional regulatory networks that underlie early mammalian embryogenesis and ES cell self-renewal and pluripotency. The results demonstrate that the systematic analysis of cis-regulatory elements active in ES cells can lead to the identification of important transcription factors, such as NF-Y, that regulate ES cell proliferation.
 The current model of hepatitis C virus (HCV) production involves the assembly of virions on or near lipid droplets, envelopment at the ER in association with components of VLDL synthesis, and egress via the secretory pathway. However, the cellular requirements and mechanisms of HCV secretion are incomplete. To gain a detailed understanding of HCV egress, an RNA interference (RNAi) analysis was conducted in combination with live cell imaging of HCV core trafficking.RNAi studies identified multiple components of the secretory pathway, including ER to Golgi trafficking, lipid and protein kinases that regulate budding from the trans-Golgi network (TGN), VAMP1 vesicles and adaptor proteins, and the recycling endosome. The results support a model wherein HCV is infectious upon envelopment at the ER and exits the cell via the secretory pathway.Furthermore, an infectious HCV with a tetracysteine (TC) tag insertion in core (TC-core) was constructed to monitor the dynamics of HCV core trafficking in association with its cellular cofactors. TC-core traffics to the cell periphery along microtubules and this movement can be inhibited by nocodazole. Sub-populations of TC-core localize to the Golgi and co-traffic with components of the recycling endosome. Silencing of the recycling endosome component Rab11a results in the accumulation of HCV core at the Golgi. The majority of dynamic core traffics in association with apolipoprotein E (ApoE) and VAMP1 vesicles.In summary, this study identified many new host cofactors of HCV egress and presented dynamic studies of HCV core trafficking in infected cells. The findings suggest that HCV is infectious upon envelopment at the ER and exits the cell via the secretory pathway, specifically through the TGN to recycling endosomes to the plasma membrane.
 This study investigates the conformational behavior of two synthetic peptides, LK and EALA, with built-in secondary α-helical amphiphilicity, using molecular dynamics simulations. The peptides are neither random coils nor fully formed α-helices in bulk water but adopt multiple conformations and secondary structure elements with short lifetimes. The results suggest that intrinsically disordered peptides are not necessarily fully disordered and that a change in environmental conditions can alter the relative depths of the free-energy minima corresponding to these ensemble structures.The study also explores the influence of interfaces, both macroscopic and molecular, on the conformational behavior of the peptides. The macroscopic vacuum/water interface leads to a strong partitioning of hydrophobic/hydrophilic residues, which enforces a unique conformation by stabilizing the α-helical form for both model systems. The peptides' response to molecular interfaces presented by an aggregation partner in bulk water differs significantly. For LK, the molecular interface stabilizes the α-helical state, even at a dimer level. In contrast, EALA dimers adopt a broad distribution of transient secondary structural elements, including α-helical elements and β-sheet structures. The differences between LK, EALA, and AK can be linked to the peptides' inherent α-helical tendencies in bulk water, as well as their different balance of hydrophobic forces, electrostatic repulsion, and intra- and intermolecular hydrogen-bonding.The simulations also reveal interesting insights into the early stages of dimer formation, where the two molecules make their first contact via the extended tail of one of the molecules in its disordered state, suggesting that a certain degree of disorder may be advantageous for aggregation. The peptides' aggregation behavior is also strongly affected by the presence or absence of a macroscopic interface. While LK peptides aggregate less strongly at the vacuum/water interface compared to bulk water, two EALA molecules form very stable α-helical dimers at the vacuum/water interface. The different behavior of EALA can be linked to the distribution of surface charge and hydrophobicity, as well as strong intermolecular hydrogen bonds that further stabilize the dimer.The study was conducted using molecular dynamics simulations with the GROMACS simulation package and the GROMOS 54a7 force-field. The simulations were performed at neutral pH, with the lysine sidechains in LK protonated and the glutamic acid sidechains in EALA deprotonated. The systems were neutralized with chloride and sodium ions. The simulations were at least one microsecond long and were performed at 298 K in an isobaric-isothermal ensemble. The vacuum/water interface simulations were performed in the canonical (NVT) ensemble to maintain the shape of the box. The potential of mean force (PMF) calculations were performed using the umbrella sampling method, and solvent accessible surface area (SASA) calculations were performed using the g_sas tool of GROMACS.
 This study investigated the impact of influenza A virus (IAV) co-infection on the population bottlenecks of Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus) during colonization, disease, and transmission in an infant mouse model. The findings revealed that in the presence of IAV, pneumococci must pass through single cell bottlenecks during bloodstream invasion and transmission. These bottlenecks were not associated with genetic adaptation by the pathogen. The bottleneck in transmission occurred between bacterial exit from one host and establishment in another, explaining why the number of shed organisms in secretions is critical to overcoming it. The study demonstrated that viral infection and TLR-dependent innate immune responses stimulated by IAV drive bacterial contagion. The model identified vulnerable points in pneumococcal pathogenesis, which could be targeted for intervention strategies.
 HIV spreads efficiently through cell-cell contacts, and the relative importance of cell-cell transmission in natural infection and its vulnerability to inhibition by neutralizing antibodies and entry inhibitors remains unclear. In this study, the authors report on neutralizing antibody activity during cell-cell transmission using specifically tailored experimental strategies. They demonstrate that the activity of neutralizing monoclonal antibodies and entry inhibitors during cell-cell transmission varies depending on their mode of action. While gp41-directed agents remain active, CD4 binding site (CD4bs)-directed inhibitors, including the potent neutralizing mAb VRC01, dramatically lose potency during cell-cell transmission. This implies that CD4bs mAbs act preferentially through blocking free virus transmission while still allowing HIV to spread through cell-cell contacts, providing a plausible explanation for how HIV maintains infectivity and rapidly escapes potent and broadly active CD4bs-directed antibody responses in vivo. The study was conducted using PBMC infected with primary, replication competent (rc) virus isolates and TZM-bl cells as target cells. The authors found that cell-cell transmission between JR-FL infected PBMC and TZM-bl target cells was polycation independent, while cell-free infection by the R5 isolate JR-FL was dramatically reduced in the absence of polycations. They also found that the inhibitory potency of the gp120-directed tetrameric CD4-IgG2 molecule (PRO 542) and the gp41-directed fusion inhibitor T-20 against the isolate JR-FL in cell-free and cell-cell virus transmission varied. The study provides a necessary first step towards the definition of the in vivo relevance of the respective transmission modes and ensuing requirements for their inhibition by vaccine-induced antibody responses and entry inhibitors.
 This study proposes a novel statistical framework to evaluate the predictive performance of genetic risk models for complex diseases using a unifying approach. The framework is based on the liability threshold model, which assumes an underlying liability that is normally distributed, and connects various prediction indices, such as the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve, mean risk difference, net reclassification improvement (NRI), proportion of cases explained, variance of predicted risks, and risk at any percentile. The framework allows for the derivation of analytic formulas for these indices and the construction of graphs to visualize the performance of risk models. The results from simulations match well with the theoretical estimates, and the methodology is applied to nine complex diseases, evaluating the predictive power of genetic tests based on known susceptibility variants for each trait. The study demonstrates that the proposed framework provides a comprehensive and useful methodology for researchers to assess the predictive ability of sets of susceptibility loci. Programs to implement the methodology are available at <https://sites.google.com/site/honcheongso/software/pred-metrics>.
 The Saccharomyces cerevisiae RAD3 gene is the homolog of human XPD, an essential gene encoding a DNA helicase of the TFIIH complex involved in both nucleotide excision repair (NER) and transcription. Some mutant alleles of RAD3, such as rad3-101 and rad3-102, have partial defects in DNA repair and a strong hyper-recombination (hyper-Rec) phenotype. Previous studies showed that the hyper-Rec phenotype of rad3-101 and rad3-102 strains is due to persistent single-stranded DNA gaps that are converted to recombinogenic double-strand breaks (DSBs) by replication.To further characterize these events, a system was used to recover the reciprocal products of mitotic recombination. Both rad3-101 and rad3-102 elevate the frequency of reciprocal crossovers about 100-fold, and mapping of these events showed that three-quarters of these crossovers reflect DSBs formed at the same positions in both sister chromatids (double sister-chromatid breaks, DSCBs). The remaining crossovers reflect DSBs formed in single chromatids (single chromatid breaks, SCBs). The ratio of DSCBs to SCBs is similar to that observed for spontaneous recombination events in wild-type cells.Genomic alterations throughout the genome, including crossovers, gene conversions, deletions, and duplications, were mapped in 33 sectored colonies derived from the rad3-102 strain and 10 colonies derived from the rad3-101 strain. Results from these two strains were not significantly different. There was a significant association between the location of these recombination events and regions with elevated gamma-H2AX, a damage-associated histone modification. Additionally, there was a hotspot for deletions and duplications at the IMA2 and HXT11 genes near the left end of chromosome XV.The data suggest that a sub-set of spontaneous mitotic recombination events is initiated by incomplete NER reactions, and that DSCBs, which cannot be repaired by sister-chromatid recombination, are a major source of mitotic recombination between homologous chromosomes. The strains used in the analysis were derived from two sequence-diverged haploids, W303-1A and YJM789, and isogenic rad3-102 and rad3-101 diploids were generated by crossing these strains. Genomic DNA was isolated from cells and labeled with Cy5-dUTP and Cy3-dUTP, and hybridized to Agilent oligonucleotide SNP microarrays. The data were analyzed to determine the regions associated with the unselected LOH events and to examine the over-representation of various types of genomic elements. Nineteen different elements were examined, and the results were summarized in S5 Table.
 A proposed budget cut of $26.7 million from the CDC vector-borne diseases program in the 2011 U.S. fiscal year could significantly impact the country's ability to handle and manage mosquito-borne diseases such as dengue and West Nile virus. The elimination of mosquito surveillance could lead to increased management costs of epidemics by up to an order of magnitude compared to a strategy with sustained surveillance and early case detection.Using data from two dengue fever outbreaks in Cairns, Queensland, Australia, in 2003 and 2009, researchers estimated the basic reproductive number (R0) and effective reproduction number (Rt) of dengue transmission. R0 represents the average number of secondary cases after the introduction of an infection, while Rt represents the average number of secondary cases per primary case at a given time. Hypothetical epidemic curves were generated for each outbreak under different response times (res) of vector control activities to a dengue introduction.The study found that a response within 2 weeks of an introduction occurred only when active vector surveillance was in place, while delays in response of 6-8 weeks occurred when active disease and vector surveillance were eliminated. The cumulative cost of a strategy with active surveillance and a response time of 2 weeks was significantly lower than the cost of responding 4-6 weeks later. Delayed responses led to exponential increases in both the number of human cases and health costs.The findings provide a science-based justification for the re-assessment of the current proposal to slash the budget of the CDC vector-borne diseases program and emphasize the need for improved and sustainable systems for vector-borne disease surveillance. The costs to contain a dengue outbreak in a city with a climate comparable to Miami but with a smaller population would have been much higher than the proposed CDC budget cut. Without a strong human and vector surveillance system, detection and response to emerging vector-borne diseases could be severely impaired. The consequences of a delayed response to the West Nile Virus outbreak in New York City in 1999 serve as a clear example of the potential consequences of inadequate surveillance and response.The economic analysis provides strong evidence from an ethical, economic, and scientific standpoint for lawmakers to retain investments in this cost-effective preventive public health strategy. In fact, the analysis suggests the need for more, rather than less, funding for vector-borne disease surveillance. The probability of early detection of a vector-borne disease introduction or rapid interruption of transmission if an outbreak were to occur is a direct function of adequate funding for vector-borne disease research and surveillance.
 Insulator elements, such as the Fab-8 boundary element in Drosophila's Bithorax complex (BX-C), play a crucial role in regulating transcription by preventing inappropriate enhancer-promoter interactions. CTCF, a zinc-finger protein, is a well-studied enhancer blocking factor in vertebrates and has recently been characterized in Drosophila. In Drosophila, only one endogenous CTCF binding location has been identified, the Fab-8 insulator in the Abdominal-B locus in the BX-C. Chromatin immunopurification coupled with genomic microarray analysis was used to identify CTCF binding sites within representative regions of the Drosophila genome, including the 3-Mb Adh region, the BX-C, and the Antennapedia complex. CTCF binding sites identified in the BX-C precisely map to known insulator elements, Mcp, Fab-6, and Fab-8, and correlate with boundaries of regulatory domains, allowing the identification of three additional presumptive insulator elements, "Fab-2," "Fab-3," and "Fab-4." CTCF is directly associated with all known or predicted insulators in the BX-C, suggesting that the functioning of these insulators involves a common CTCF-dependent mechanism. Comparison of the locations of CTCF sites with characterized Polycomb target sites and histone modification provides support for the domain model of BX-C regulation.
 Ebolaviruses, such as Zaire ebolavirus (EBOV), possess longer genomes than most other non-segmented negative-strand RNA viruses due to long 5′ and 3′ untranslated regions (UTRs) present in their seven transcriptional units. The functions of these UTRs remain uncharacterized, but studies have demonstrated that the EBOV 5′-UTRs lack internal ribosomal entry site function but differentially regulate cap-dependent translation. The 5′-UTR derived from the viral polymerase (L) mRNA strongly suppresses translation of GFP compared to a β-actin 5′-UTR. This L 5′-UTR is one of four viral genes to possess upstream AUGs (uAUGs), and ablation of each uAUG enhances translation of the primary ORF (pORF), most dramatically in the case of the L 5′-UTR. The L uAUG is sufficient to initiate translation, is surrounded by a "weak" Kozak sequence, and suppresses pORF translation in a position-dependent manner. Under conditions where eIF2α is phosphorylated, the presence of the uORF maintains translation of the L pORF, indicating that the uORF modulates L translation in response to cellular stress. To directly address the role of the L uAUG in virus replication, a recombinant EBOV was generated in which the L uAUG was mutated to UCG. Strikingly, this mutation attenuated virus growth to titers 10-100-fold lower than a wild-type virus in Vero and A549 cells and exhibited decreased viral RNA synthesis as early as 6 hours post-infection and enhanced sensitivity to the stress inducer thapsigargin. These data suggest that the uORF in the EBOV L mRNA regulates polymerase expression in response to the status of the cellular innate immune response and is required for optimal virus replication.
 This study compared intracellular viral spread in paralytic and furious forms of rabies by determining the amount of rabies viral antigen beyond neuronal cell bodies at different central nervous system (CNS) levels. Ten naturally rabies-infected dogs were used, including five with the furious form and five with the paralytic form, all in the early stage of infection. Results showed that the percentage of antigen-positive area beyond neuronal cell bodies was greater in furious dogs than paralytic dogs at all 16 levels examined, reaching statistical significance in 10 of these levels. The regression model also demonstrated that for a given percentage of positive neurons, the percentage of antigen area beyond neuronal cell bodies was significantly greater in furious compared to paralytic rabies. The findings suggest that intracellular transport of the virus may be slower in the paralytic form, resulting in slower viral propagation. Possible mechanisms include host-specific differences in intracellular virus transport or cytokine-mediated effects. Previous studies have documented greater inflammation in the paralytic form, which could impede viral propagation to the hemispheres and result in a reduced viral burden in the paralytic dog brains. The study was carried out on post-mortem CNS specimens from dogs with rabies, and all immunostained slides were captured and quantitatively assessed using a computer-aided system for microscopic images.
 Replication fork integrity is essential for genome stability and is monitored by checkpoint-mediated phosphorylation events. Exonuclease 1 (Exo1) processes stalled replication forks in checkpoint-defective cells, and 14-3-3 proteins have been identified as in vivo interaction partners of Exo1 in both yeast and mammalian cells. In yeast, 14-3-3–deficient cells fail to induce Mec1–dependent Exo1 hyperphosphorylation and accumulate Exo1–dependent ssDNA gaps at stalled forks, leading to persistent checkpoint activation and exacerbated recovery defects. Moreover, 14-3-3 proteins promote fork progression under limiting nucleotide concentrations. The proposed mechanism involves 14-3-3 proteins assisting in controlling the phosphorylation status of Exo1 and additional unknown targets, promoting fork progression, stability, and restart in response to DNA replication stress.Exo1 is a Rad2 family DNA repair nuclease that acts redundantly with Rad27 in processing Okazaki fragments during DNA replication and is recruited to stalled replication forks where it counteracts fork reversal. Its activity is tightly controlled under DNA replication stress and DNA damage through post-translational modifications, including ATR- and ATM-dependent phosphorylation.14-3-3 proteins are highly conserved proteins that act as adaptors that integrate signals from different pathways. They can bind cruciform DNA and replication initiation proteins such as Mcm2 and Orc2. Upon DNA damage and DNA replication stress, 14-3-3 proteins are required for cell cycle restart, suppression of genomic instability, and viability. They also genetically and physically interact with the checkpoint protein Rad53 and the acetyltransferases and deacetylases Esa1 and Rpd3 upon replication perturbations.In this study, 14-3-3 proteins were identified as novel interaction partners of Exo1, and their regulation of Exo1 phosphorylation was demonstrated. The data showed that Exo1-dependent ssDNA gaps accumulate at stalled forks in yeast 14-3-3 deficient cells, causing persistent checkpoint activation and recovery defects. Additionally, 14-3-3 proteins control progression and stability of replication forks under conditions of limiting nucleotide availability. Overall, these data demonstrate that 14-3-3 proteins have a crucial role in regulating the function of proteins at stalled forks, among which Exo1 is a key target.
 Sindbis virus (SINV) is a mosquito-borne virus that causes polyarthritis and rash in humans. It is mainly found in tropical and sub-tropical countries, but in northern Europe, it is known to cause regularly reoccurring outbreaks every seven years. In central Sweden, a study was conducted to investigate the activity of SINV in vector mosquitoes and the abundance of these mosquitoes during the transmission season in the years before, during, and after an outbreak year.The study focused on the sibling enzootic vectors Culex torrentium and Culex pipiens, the potential enzootic vector Culiseta morsitans, and the bridge-vector Aedes cinereus. Mosquitoes were collected using Centres for Disease Control and Prevention Miniature Light Traps and identified based on morphological characters. SINV was detected in mosquitoes collected between July 30 and September 10, with the highest number of isolates obtained in 2002.The infection rate of SINV in mosquitoes varied between the two vector species groups and among the five vector species. The main enzootic vectors, Culex torrentium and Culex pipiens, showed the highest infection probability, while Aedes cinereus had a lower but still significant infection rate. The total number of SINV strains in vector mosquitoes was highest in 2002, and the infection rate in bridge-vectors alone (Aedes ssp.) was higher in 2002 than in other years.The study also found that the annual abundance of Culex torrentium/pipiens showed a marginal significant positive correlation with MLE-IRx, t, i in Aedes rossicus. The biweekly abundance of Culex torrentium/pipiens varied between 0.1 and 8.9 per trap-night, with little variation among or within years, except for a sharp increase to 8.9 per trap-night in week 31, 2002. The biweekly abundance of Culiseta morsitans varied between 0.1 and 3.5 per trap-night, with an annual peak of activity in late August. SINV isolates from Culiseta morsitans were only obtained in August 2002. The biweekly abundance of Aedes cinereus varied within season, and the peak abundance was rather similar between the years studied but with variable timing.The results suggest that increased SINV-I prevalence in the bridge-vector Aedes cinereus and in the enzootic vectors Culex torrentium/pipiens constitute valuable outbreak markers for further scrutinizing the hypothesized seven-year cycle of SINV-I outbreaks and the mechanisms behind. The study provides evidence for the importance of monitoring mosquito populations and identifying the presence of SINV in vector mosquitoes to predict and prevent outbreaks of SINV polyarthritis and rash in northern Europe.
 In this study, the authors used an ecological genomic approach to investigate the genetic basis of the indirect effect of bacterial community responses on nematode community structure in grassland soils. They focused on the genomic responses of microbial-feeding nematodes to possible changes within the grassland microbial environment. The hypothesis was that an examination of differential gene expression in different environments may reveal the genetic basis of the observed nematode community response.The authors isolated bacteria from grassland prairie soils using Caenorhabditis elegans as a model nematode, as related nematodes from the same family (Rhabditidae) are found in the soil. They found that the fitness and lifespan of wild-type C. elegans differed significantly in the different bacterial environments. The absolute fitness of wild-type animals was highest when grown on Pseudomonas sp., followed by E. coli, B. megaterium, and M. luteus. The lifespan of wild-type animals was also affected by the bacterial environment, with wild-type animals having lower TD50 values when grown on M. luteus and longer lifespans when grown on Pseudomonas sp. and B. megaterium.To further investigate the relationship between gene expression and phenotypic effects, the authors performed functional tests on multiple aspects of life history, including brood size, generation time, absolute fitness, and lifespan, for all four bacterial environments. They found that many of the mutations had effects on life history traits and differed significantly from wild type in a given bacterial environment. While the majority of mutant strains tested had decreased fitness compared to wild type in each environment, surprisingly, a few mutant strains showed increased fitness when grown on E. coli, M. luteus, and Pseudomonas sp. The authors also found that more mutant strains had increased fitness in the B. megaterium environment as compared to wild type than had reduced fitness.The authors also tested whether differential gene expression between environments had predictive power for the mutational effects on life history traits in those environments. They found a correlation between mutant lifespan and differential expression of genes in comparisons of bacterial environments. The correlation was strongest for genes that were up-regulated in an environment and positively regulated lifespan, as loss or reduction of that gene function would cause a reduction in fitness or lifespan in that environment. The results demonstrate that transcriptional profiling identified genes of functional importance in each bacterial environment.
 Centromeres are essential structures that connect chromosomes to the spindle during cell division. The attachment points between the genome and the cytoskeleton are marked by centromeric histone H3 (CENH3) and a complex of proteins called the kinetochore. Centromeres have diagnostic repeats, but their replication is epigenetic and independent of DNA sequence. Maize CENPC, a key inner kinetochore protein, has both DNA-binding and RNA-binding capacities. The DNA/RNA-binding domain is localized to the exon duplication region, and RNA directly facilitates the binding of CENPC to DNA in vitro. The data suggest that CENPC and RNA are a part of the template that directs CENH3 to newly replicated centromere DNA. CENPC is a non-specific DNA binding protein in vitro, but it targets centromeres independently of DNA sequence. In vitro gel shift assays using double-stranded CentC DNA as the binding substrate showed that CENPC binds to CentC with increasing efficiency as DNA length increases and that RNA promotes the formation of a larger supershifted product. The data suggest that CENPC and RNA work together to ensure accurate centromere replication.
 The human genome is diploid, meaning individuals inherit one set of chromosomes paternally and one homologous set maternally. Most human genome sequencing initiatives neglect this fact, as directly delineating the nucleotide content of maternal and paternal copies of chromosomes (phasing) is costly and complex. Eleven approaches to phase the NA12878 genome were compared, including laboratory-based methods and computational strategies. Laboratory-based methods, such as 10X Genomics, CPT-seq, fosmid sequencing, and Moleculo, build haplotypic contigs from DNA sequencing reads or use unique laboratory-based approaches. Computational methods, like Beagle, Eagle2, SHAPEIT, and HapCUT, leverage population-based strategies using reference panels or a combination of sequence read- and population-based constructs. The results suggest that a large comprehensive reference panel, such as the HRC, greatly enhances phasing performance, and population-based phasing can be significantly improved with family trio data. Laboratory-based methods are more expensive and complex, but the continuous reduction in sequencing costs may favor a familial approach for improving the performance of computational phasing methods. The best improvement to population phasing performance was the addition of parental genotype data, which resulted in a 10-fold reduction of errors and a 10-fold increase in haplotype block lengths. A majority voting approach was proposed to combine phasing strategies and build consensus from multiple predicted haplotypes. Traditional strategies to phase genomes by sequencing parents or relatives are also gaining popularity due to their ability to validate de novo or private mutations in clinical contexts. However, the cost-effectiveness of these methods depends on the availability of relatives and the continuous reduction in sequencing costs. The fosmid pool sequencing dataset was compared with the NA12878 GIAB gold standard and other phasing approaches using the liftOver tool. The fosmid-based phasing result for the European individual 'Max Planck One' from a previous study was also mentioned for additional comparison. The analyses focused on phasing performance for the autosomal chromosomes but raised some important questions, including the accuracy of the results relying on the NIST-GIAB gold standard variants used, the optimization of results obtained by relevant research teams, and the lack of consideration of short insertion-deletion polymorphisms (indels) and structural variants such as moderate to large indels, copy number variants (CNVs), inversions, or other forms of structural variations. Ultimately, the ability to phase human genomes using fast and low-cost computational approaches will push diploid genome analysis to a new level.
 In contrast to HIV infection in humans and SIV in macaques, SIV infection in natural hosts, including sooty mangabeys (SM), is non-pathogenic despite robust virus replication. A novel SM CCR5 allele containing a two base pair deletion (Δ2) that encodes a truncated molecule not expressed on the cell surface and does not support SIV entry in vitro was identified. This allele was present at a 26% frequency in a large SM colony, along with a 3% frequency for a CCR5Δ24 deletion allele that also abrogates surface expression. CD8+ and CD4+ T cells displayed a gradient of CCR5 expression across genotype groups, which was highly significant for CD8+ cells. Remarkably, the prevalence of natural SIVsmm infection was not significantly different in animals lacking functional CCR5 compared to heterozygous and homozygous wild-type animals. Furthermore, animals lacking functional CCR5 had robust plasma viral loads, which were only modestly lower than wild-type animals. SIVsmm primary isolates infected both homozygous mutant and wild-type PBMC in a CCR5-independent manner in vitro, and Envs from both CCR5-null and wild-type infected animals used CXCR6, GPR1, and GPR15 in addition to CCR5 in transfected cells. These data indicate that SIVsmm relies on CCR5-independent entry pathways in SM that are homozygous for defective CCR5 alleles, and while the extent of alternative coreceptor use in SM with CCR5 wild-type alleles is uncertain, strongly suggest that SIVsmm tropism and host cell targeting in vivo is defined by the distribution and use of alternative entry pathways in addition to CCR5. SIVsmm entry through alternative pathways in vivo raises the possibility of novel CCR5-negative target cells that may be more expendable than CCR5+ cells and enable the virus to replicate efficiently without causing disease in the face of extremely restricted CCR5 expression seen in SM and several other natural host species. HIV-1 emergence into the human population resulted from cross-species transmission of SIVcpz from chimpanzees, which itself resulted from transmission and subsequent recombination of SIVs infecting primates on which chimpanzees prey. Similarly, both simian AIDS caused by SIVmac/smm in rhesus macaques and HIV-2 infection of humans originated from cross-species transmission of SIVsmm from naturally infected sooty mangabeys. Infection in natural host species is typically non-progressive, and the benign nature of SM infection in vivo is not due to overall restricted viral replication, as both nonpathogenic natural host and pathogenic nonnatural host infections are characterized by robust viremia. Understanding natural host infection has become a high priority for identifying key features of infection in vivo that regulate pathogenesis and, potentially, identify opportunities to modulate disease apart from or in addition to suppressing overall virus replication through pharmacologic or immune mechanisms. HIV and SIV entry into target cells is initiated by binding of the viral envelope glycoprotein (Env) to cell surface CD4, followed by structural changes that enable interactions with a seven transmembrane G protein coupled cell surface receptor that then triggers fusion. HIV-1 isolates use CCR5 or CXCR4 or both, and in vitro use other molecules infrequently. The restricted expression of CCR5 mainly on memory CD4+ T cells, but broader expression of CXCR4 on both memory and naïve subsets, is thought in part to underlie the accelerated disease progression seen in individuals in whom CXCR4-using HIV-1 variants emerge late in the course of infection. In contrast, sooty mangabeys express very low levels of CCR5 on their CD4+ T cells, a mechanism by which replication might be regulated in vivo and restrict transmission and pathogenesis. However, most strains of SIV use a number of other alternative coreceptors in in vitro assays, such as CXCR6 (STRL33), the orphan receptors GPR1 and GPR15, and several others. Despite the efficient use of alternative entry pathways by SIVmac and SIVsmm isolates in transfected cells, infection and cell targeting in vivo is generally thought to be dependent on CCR5. However, the proportion of CD4+ T cells depleted and/or
 This study investigates the link between insulin signaling, reproduction, and attractiveness in Drosophila melanogaster. Previous research showed that global activation of insulin signaling increases attractiveness in flies, but the mechanism was unclear. The study focused on tissue-specific effects, as oenocytes, which produce attractiveness cues, did not show insulin signaling influence on attractiveness. Late follicle cells, which may be a source of insulin-dependent attractiveness cues, showed increased attractiveness and reproductive function with insulin signaling upregulation. Conversely, the fat body, which interacts closely with oenocytes and the ovary, showed opposite effects on attractiveness when insulin signaling was manipulated. Vitellogenic ovaries were necessary for global and fat body insulin signaling manipulations to influence attractiveness. The study suggests that insulin-dependent attractiveness cues are determined cell non-autonomously by integration of nutrient-sensing pathway activities from different tissues, and reproductive effort reflected in late-stage follicle cells may constitute one potential mechanism of honesty and reliability in this system of mate choice. The study also proposes a model in which an attractiveness signal originates in the ovary following an increase in insulin signaling in late follicle cells, which signals to the fat body to increase its insulin resistance, establishing a positive feedback loop with the ovary. Future research will identify the molecule carrying attractiveness signals between tissues and understand how they are influenced by internal and external perturbations.
 This study reports on a mouse model of triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), which is a subtype of breast cancer characterized by the absence of estrogen receptor (ESR1), progesterone receptor (PGR), and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) expression. TNBCs are often associated with the Basal-like molecular subtype, which is defined by the expression of specific genes and molecular pathways. The Basal-like subtype is further divided into the Basal-like and Claudin-low subtypes, which share some similarities but also have distinct features.The study uses a mouse model with engineered inactivation of the Rb, p53, and Brca1 tumor suppressor pathways in mammary epithelial cells. The results show that concomitant inactivation of all three pathways leads to highly penetrant, malignant carcinomas with an additive effect on tumor latency. The study also finds that Brca1 inactivation accelerates tumor development and shifts the tumor spectrum towards features of both Basal-like and Claudin-low subtypes.The mouse model displays several characteristics of human TNBCs, including rapid tumor progression, poor differentiation, distant metastasis, necrosis, metaplasia, and genomic instability. The study also identifies potential collaborating oncogenic events, including recurrent losses of large regions spanning chr4 and chr10, which harbor many potential tumor suppressors and effectors of cell death.The findings from this study provide valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms of TNBC development and offer an invaluable preclinical platform for identifying and assessing potential therapeutics for aggressive and chemoresistant breast cancer subtypes. The study was performed in accordance with ethical guidelines for animal research.
 Legionella pneumophila, a gram-negative bacterium found in freshwater environments, infects eukaryotic cells by translocating effector proteins into the host cytoplasm using the type IV secretion system. These effector proteins manipulate host cellular processes to facilitate infection. One such effector, LubX, functions as a U-box-type E3 ubiquitin ligase that targets another effector, SidH, for degradation by the host proteasome. Delayed delivery of LubX to the host cytoplasm results in the shutdown of SidH within the host cells at later stages of infection. This demonstrates a sophisticated level of coevolution between L. pneumophila and eukaryotic cells, with LubX acting as a key regulator to temporally coordinate the function of a cognate effector protein. SidH is a target of LubX, and their interaction is specific and direct, leading to the polyubiquitination and degradation of SidH in the host cytosol. This discovery of a bacterial effector that regulates another effector within the host cell is the first example of a "metaeffector." Future studies will reveal that some bacterial effectors implicated in manipulation of the host ubiquitin system possess regulatory functions as metaeffector that coordinate the expression of effector functions spatiotemporally.
 This study investigates the importance of correcting assumptions commonly made in the analysis of time-series transcriptome data for the inference of regulatory interactions and quantitative gene regulation functions. The two main assumptions questioned are that transcriptome data alone are sufficient to capture the time-varying state of gene expression and that gene regulation can be reduced to the action of transcription factors and other specific regulators. The authors propose an integrated experimental and computational approach using new controls for transcriptome experiments, mathematical models, and computational procedures to reconstruct protein concentrations and integrate global physiological effects into the network inference process. The results demonstrate that the inclusion of global physiological effects and realistic half-lives leads to improved inference results, particularly for regulatory proteins with more typical half-lives. The approach has broad applicability for analyzing time-series transcriptome data and improving network inference in various organisms.
 This systematic review and meta-analysis assessed patterns and dynamics of soil-transmitted helminth (STH) reinfection after drug treatment. From 154 studies identified, 51 were included, and 24 provided STH infection rates pre- and post-treatment. At 3, 6, and 12 months post-treatment, Ascaris lumbricoides, Trichuris trichiura, and hookworm prevalence reached 26%, 36%, and 30% of pretreatment levels, respectively. Prevalence and intensity of reinfection were positively correlated with pretreatment infection status. STH reinfections occur rapidly after treatment, particularly for A. lumbricoides and T. trichiura. Preventive chemotherapy with current drugs of choice against STHs reduces morbidity but does not prevent reinfection. Decision-makers must consider benefits, costs, acceptability, and harms of preventive chemotherapy and adopt integrated control approaches, including health education, sanitation improvement, and behavior change, for more durable control of STH infections.
 The article discusses the importance of post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) in preventing rabies, but the lack of accessibility and affordability of rabies vaccines and biologicals, particularly in resource-poor countries where most human rabies deaths occur. The authors analyzed different PEP vaccination regimens and their costs and benefits, finding that ID administration is more cost-effective than IM administration and uses less vaccine. They also propose financing mechanisms to make PEP more affordable and accessible. The authors conclude that a universal switch to ID delivery would improve the affordability and accessibility of PEP, leading to a likely reduction in human rabies deaths and being economical for healthcare providers. The article also discusses the implications for cost recuperation and the importance of reducing the burden of rabies through increased availability of vaccines for the rural poor.
 Uganda is home to active foci of both chronic and acute Human African Trypanosomiasis (HAT), with the acute form expanding from its traditional disease focus in southeast Uganda and posing a significant risk to human health. Cattle act as long-term reservoirs of human-infective Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense, showing few signs of morbidity but posing a risk to human health. This study examines the relationship between human T. b. rhodesiense infection and human infective and non-human T. brucei s.l. circulating in cattle at village level in Kaberamaido and Dokolo Districts, Uganda.The study found that villages with reported sleeping sickness cases had a significant effect on the odds of T. brucei s.l. infection in cattle, with higher odds in case villages. Cattle age also had a significant effect, with older cattle showing higher odds of infection. Village sleeping sickness status, cattle age, and cattle condition score were retained as fixed effects in the final multivariable model for the 12 study villages in Dokolo and Kaberamaido.The results demonstrate a clear link between outbreaks of sleeping sickness in a village and the prevalence of T. brucei s.l. and T. b. rhodesiense in the cattle of that village herd. Establishing the extent of the reservoir of human-infective T. b. rhodesiense parasites in cattle not only provides an indicator of risk to the human population in the affected districts but also permits appraisal of the risk of the disease spreading to neighboring districts.The study highlights the importance of understanding the relationship between infected cattle and infected individuals to make an appropriate response to the risk posed to the community from animals infected with human pathogens in a village setting. Control of infection in the animal reservoir through appropriate veterinary intervention with effective cross-talk between relevant Ministries could realize the value of a One Health Approach for zoonotic disease control.
 Dietary restriction (DR) is a well-known intervention that extends lifespan and delays age-related diseases in various species. Previous studies have shown that the target of rapamycin (TOR) pathway is essential for DR-induced longevity in flies, yeast, and worms. TOR is a conserved protein kinase that regulates growth and metabolism in response to nutrients and growth factors. In C. elegans, the TOR pathway modulates lifespan, but it is still unclear whether TOR affects DR-mediated lifespan extension.Recent studies have identified HIF-1 as a target of the TOR pathway in mammalian cells, and it is also a regulator of lifespan in C. elegans. HIF-1 is a transcription factor complex that plays key roles in oxygen homeostasis, tumor formation, glucose metabolism, cell survival, and inflammatory response. In C. elegans, hif-1 mutants extend lifespan under rich nutrient conditions but fail to show lifespan extension under DR. Conversely, a mutation in egl-9, which increases HIF-1 activity, diminishes the lifespan extension under DR. This deficiency is rescued by tissue-specific expression of egl-9 in specific neurons and muscles.The lifespan extension by hif-1 or DR is dependent on the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress regulator inositol-requiring protein-1 (IRE-1) and is associated with lower levels of ER stress. Therefore, the results demonstrate a tissue-specific role for HIF-1 in the lifespan extension by DR involving the IRE-1 ER stress pathway.The TOR pathway has been shown to play important roles in DR-dependent lifespan extension in D. melanogaster and S. cerevisiae. Our study underscores the importance of the TOR-S6K pathway as a conserved mediator of lifespan extension by DR in multiple species.Previous studies have identified key regulators of DR-dependent lifespan extension, including transcription factors PHA-4, SKN-1, HSF-1, and the cellular energy homeostasis regulator AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). It is very likely that the maximal lifespan extension by DR is not achieved by regulating a single genetic pathway but that multiple pathways act together to mediate the lifespan effect of DR.Our study suggests an important role for HIF-1 as an oncogene in the context of aging and nutrient sensing, which are both key risk factors in tumor formation. HIF-1 overexpression is frequently detected in various tumors due to intratumoral hypoxia and genetic mutations. HIF-1 owes its oncogenic properties to pleiotropic effects on a variety of cellular processes, including survival under hypoxia, angiogenesis, metastasis, and glucose metabolism. Inhibition of HIF-1 has been proven to be an efficient way to prevent tumor growth, and HIF-1 is being extensively studied as an important target in cancer therapy. Our study suggests an important role for HIF-1 as an oncogene in the context of aging and nutrient sensing.In summary, our study provides new insights into the role of HIF-1 in DR-dependent lifespan extension and its potential role as an oncogene in the context of aging and nutrient sensing. The findings may help explain how protein homeostasis determines lifespan and age-related diseases.
 The study describes the reconstruction and deployment of the first genome-scale metabolic and gene expression (ME) model for the acetogen Clostridium ljungdahlii. The ME-model, named iJL965-ME, captures all major central metabolic, amino acid, nucleotide, lipid, major cofactors, and vitamin synthesis pathways, as well as transcription, translation, macromolecule modifications, and translocation reactions. The model accurately predicted secretion of acetate, ethanol, and glycerol during changing carbon and metal availability and revealed how protein allocation and media composition influence metabolic pathways and energy conservation in this model acetogen. The ME-model also predicted substrate-specific growth rates with high accuracy and identified unique in silico maximum growth rates for individual substrates. Unlike the M-model, iJL965-ME predicted previously unknown secretion of glycerol following acetate and ethanol production during growth on xylose or glucose but not on arginine, pyruvate, or CO. The ME-model's ability to predict gene/subsystem expression was highly comparable to in vivo transcriptomics for three separate conditions, bolstering confidence in predicting macromolecular responses to environmental changes. The study also explored C1 metabolism under both autotrophic and mixotrophic conditions and the potential of controlling WLP activity through media composition. The findings provide important insights into the metabolism of acetogens and invite further studies elucidating specific effects of concurrent metal limitations and genetic perturbations.
 Arabidopsis thaliana's cryptochrome 2 (CRY2) interacts with bHLH transcription factors, specifically CIB1, CIB2, CIB4, and CIB5, to mediate light control of flowering time. CRY2 interacts with these bHLH proteins in response to blue light, but not in darkness or other wavelengths. CIB1, CIB2, CIB4, and CIB5 act redundantly to activate the transcription of FT and are positive regulators of CRY2-mediated flowering. CRY2 and CIB1/2/4/5 form heterodimers with higher binding affinity to the non-canonical E-box in the in vitro DNA-binding assays, explaining why they bind to the canonical E-box in vitro but non-canonical E-boxes in vivo. The expression of CIBs is regulated specifically by blue light. Overexpression of CIBs results in early flowering, while their dominant repressor versions cause a delayed flowering phenotype. CIB1, CIB2, CIB4, and CIB5 promote flowering redundantly by activating FT mRNA expression and interact with CRY2 to regulate gene transcription. They also form heterodimers to regulate cell elongation. CIBs are degraded in the absence of blue light via the ubiquitin/26S proteasome pathway, but their degradation is suppressed in blue light, resulting in the accumulation of CIBs.
 Enteric bacterial pathogens, including Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC), cause foodborne diseases that result in significant economic and health burdens. EHEC is known to cause hemorrhagic colitis and pediatric renal failure (hemolytic uremic syndrome; HUS) through transmission via contaminated food, water, or contact with animals. EHEC utilizes a type III secretion system (T3SS) to inject virulence proteins (effectors) into host cells, disrupting the normal function of intestinal epithelial cells.The T3SS effectors NleH1 and NleH2 of EHEC bind to the human ribosomal protein S3 (RPS3), a subunit of NF-κB transcriptional complexes. NleH1 and NleH2 co-localize with RPS3 in the cytoplasm but not in cell nuclei, and their N-terminal regions are required for binding to the N-terminus of RPS3. Both NleH1 and NleH2 are autophosphorylated Ser/Thr protein kinases, but their binding to RPS3 is independent of kinase activity.NleH1 reduces the nuclear abundance of RPS3 without altering the p50 or p65 NF-κB subunits or affecting the phosphorylation state or abundance of the inhibitory NF-κB chaperone IκBα. NleH1 represses the transcription of a RPS3/NF-κB-dependent reporter plasmid, but does not inhibit the transcription of RPS3-independent reporters. In contrast, NleH2 stimulates RPS3-dependent transcription and an AP-1-dependent reporter. A region of NleH1 (N40-K45) is at least partially responsible for the inhibitory activity of NleH1 toward RPS3.Deleting nleH1 from E. coli O157:H7 produced a hypervirulent phenotype in a gnotobiotic piglet model of Shiga toxin-producing E. coli infection. These findings suggest that NleH may disrupt host innate immune responses by binding to a cofactor of host transcriptional complexes.
 This study aimed to identify selection-nominated candidate genes and gene regions in two high-altitude human populations, Andeans and Tibetans, using high-density multilocus SNP genotype data. The analysis involved the use of four tests of natural selection: locus-specific branch length (LSBL), the log of the ratio of heterozygosities (lnRH), the standardized difference of D, and whole genome long range haplotype (WGLRH) tests. The results showed that several chromosomal regions exhibit evidence of positive directional selection, which are unique to either Andeans or Tibetans, suggesting a lack of evolutionary convergence between these two highland populations. However, convergent evolution between Andeans and Tibetans is suggested based on the signal detected for the HIF regulatory gene EGLN1. In addition to EGLN1, a second HIF regulatory gene, EPAS1, as well as two HIF targeted genes, PRKAA1 and NOS2A, have been identified as selection-nominated candidate genes in Tibetans (EPAS1) or Andeans (PRKAA1, NOS2A). PRKAA1 and NOS2A play major roles in physiological processes essential to human reproductive success. The findings of this study have the potential for elucidating key pathways responsible for major causes of human morbidity and mortality, and it will be important to confirm the results with genotype-phenotype association studies that link genotype to a specific high-altitude phenotype. The study also included the analysis of common copy number polymorphisms (CNPs) and rare copy number variants (CNVs) to identify patterns of genetic variation associated with directional selection in highlanders compared to lowlanders. The data was generated using the Genome-Wide Human SNP Array 6.0 by Affymetrix Inc. and analyzed separately for Andeans and Tibetans, with the results compared. The study involved the use of two high-altitude human populations, Andeans and Tibetans, as well as closely related low-altitude control populations. All assayed samples were included in the SNP analysis, but for the CNV analysis, 16 samples were removed that did not pass the quality control filters. The EIGENSOFT package was used for principal component analysis, and admixture estimates were performed using the maximum likelihood method implemented in frappe. Related individuals were removed based on IBD PI_HAT values, and inter-population biases in missing data were avoided by defining a threshold of at least three genotypes called per population sample and cleaning the merged dataset of SNPs with global minor allele frequency <1%. The Mesoamerican sample and the East Asian sample were used as low-altitude control populations for the Andeans, while the European and East Asian samples were used as low-altitude control populations for the Tibetan population. Candidate positive selection loci were identified in Andean and Tibetan populations by applying four tests of natural selection: LSBL, lnRH, the standardized difference of D, and WGLRH tests. LSBL, lnRH, and the standardized difference of D were computed using Perl scripts written specifically for this data set, while the WGLRH test was computed using the algorithm developed by Zhang et al. Significance was assessed by comparing the relative extended haplotype homozygosity (REHH) of a specific core haplotype to the gamma distribution and applying the false discovery rate approach to correct for multiple tests. The study identified several statistically significant loci in Andeans and Tibetans, which are unique to each population and suggest a lack of evolutionary convergence. However, the study also identified convergent evolution between Andeans and Tibetans based on the signal detected for the HIF regulatory gene EGLN1. The study identified several key HIF regulatory and targeted genes as responsible for adaptation to high altitude in Andeans and Tibetans, and several different chromosomal regions were implicated in the putative response to selection. The findings of this study provide a basis for future genotype/phenotype association studies necessary to confirm the role of selection-nominated candidate genes and gene regions in adaptation to altitude.
 Machupo virus (MACV) and Junin virus (JUNV), two New World arenaviruses in the Arenaviridae family, cause Bolivian hemorrhagic fever (BHF) and Argentine hemorrhagic fever (AHF), respectively. Previously, we reported that a recombinant, chimeric MACV (rMACV/Cd#1-GPC) expressing the glycoprotein (GPC) from the Candid#1 (Cd#1) vaccine strain of JUNV is attenuated and protects animals from lethal challenge with MACV. To investigate the role of different domains of Cd#1 GPC in the full attenuation and immunogenicity of rMACV/Cd#1-GPC, we rescued several rMACVs expressing the ectodomain of GPC from Cd#1 either alone (MCg1), along with the TMD F438I substitution (MCg2), or with the TMD of Cd#1 (MCg3). All rMACVs exhibited similar growth curves in cultured cells, but MCg1 displayed significant reduction in lethality as compared with rMACV in mice. MCg1 was detected in brains and spleens of MCg1-infected mice and was associated with tissue inflammation. On the other hand, all animals survived MCg2 and MCg3 infection without detectable levels of virus in various organs while producing neutralizing antibody against Cd#1. Overall, our data suggest the indispensable role of each GPC domain in the full attenuation and immunogenicity of rMACV/Cd#1-GPC.
 This study evaluates the performance of a new commercial dengue NS1 detection test, the Dengue Early Rapid, used alone and in combination with the Dengue Duo Cassette in retrospective studies at two Southeast Asian sites. The Dengue Early Rapid was developed using an equimolar combination of Ab2 and Ab1 MAbs immobilized onto nitrocellulose membrane and the cross-reactive Ab3 MAb conjugated to colloidal gold particles for detection of captured NS1. The test was found to have a sensitivity of 69.2% (95% CI: 62.8-75.6) and a specificity of 96% (95% CI: 92.2-99.8) when compared to laboratory-confirmed dengue cases defined by the detection of viral RNA by RT-PCR or seroconversion in the IgM or IgG antigen-capture ELISA. The sensitivity was higher for samples positive by RT-PCR (71.1% vs. 61.5%) but lower for samples that demonstrated seroconversion with no viral RNA detected (61.5% vs. 46.2%). The combination of NS1 detection with anti-IgM detection resulted in a significant increase in sensitivity to 89.0% (95% CI: 85.2-92.8) compared to detection of NS1 alone. The sensitivity was further improved to 93.0% by combining all three dengue markers (NS1, anti-IgM, and anti-IgG). The sensitivity of the antigen rapid test for each serotype was 78% for DENV-1, 62.5% for DENV-2, 61.3% for DENV-3, and 33.3% for DENV-4. The Dengue Early Rapid had a lower sensitivity than an NS1 capture ELISA but showed equivalent specificity. The study highlights the importance of combining NS1 detection with antibody detection for optimal diagnostic sensitivity for acute dengue.
 Toll/interleukin-1 receptor (TIR) domains in Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are crucial for initiating and propagating the eukaryotic innate immune signaling cascade. This study investigates TirS, a Staphylococcus aureus TIR mimic that inhibits TLR signaling and downregulates the NF-κB pathway through inhibition of TLR2, TLR4, TLR5, and TLR9. The tirS gene is invariably located within the staphylococcal chromosomal cassette (SCC) containing the fusC gene for fusidic acid resistance but not always carrying the mecA gene. Sub-inhibitory concentrations of fusidic acid increase tirS expression, and epidemiological studies show a selective advantage with a SCCmec element carrying SCC fusC/tirS. These findings suggest that TirS production may confer a selective advantage for S. aureus by evading the host immune system. TirS is a potent inhibitor of TLR2, TLR4, TLR5, and TLR9, all of which depend on MyD88, a general adaptor protein in Toll/IL-1 receptor family signaling. In vitro results show that S. aureus carrying tirS induced no increased virulence in MyD88 knockout mice, suggesting that TirS interacts with MyD88. Overall, these results suggest that TirS modulates an inflammatory response at the site of infection through the MyD88 adaptor protein.
 Protein N-terminal acetylation is a common and irreversible modification that plays a crucial role in various biological processes. It occurs co-translationally during protein synthesis, and the N-terminus defines the acetylation status of a protein. The enzymes involved in this process are conserved in pro- and eukaryotes, but the biological functions of N-terminal acetylation are not well understood. In this study, researchers analyzed the amino-terminal peptides from proteins extracted from Drosophila Kc167 cells to identify common principles of N-terminal acetylation. They detected over 1,200 mature protein N-termini and showed that N-terminal acetylation occurs in insects with a similar frequency as in humans. They also identified a rule, referred to as the (X) PX rule, that indicates the prevention of acetylation under all circumstances. This rule can be used to genetically engineer proteins to study the functional relevance of N-terminal acetylation. The researchers applied this assay by expressing mutated proteins as transgenes in cell lines and in flies. The (X) PX rule seems to be conserved among organisms, suggesting that it can be used to study the function of N-terminal acetylation in all species.
 Exosomes are membrane-enclosed vesicles that play crucial roles in viral life cycles by mediating intercellular communication and immune responses. During viral infections, exosomes can transfer viral particles, genomes, and host genetic elements to neighboring cells, helping to establish productive infections and modulating host immune response. For instance, Enterovirus 71 (EV71) infection results in upregulated exosome secretion and selective packaging of high-level miR-146a, which can be functionally transferred to and facilitate exosomal EV71 RNA to replicate in the recipient cells by suppressing type I interferon response. The findings also suggest that EV71-induced exosomal miR-146a may partly affect the production of exosomes in recipient cells due to inhibition of type I interferons production. Additionally, EV71 infection upregulates the expression of BST-2/tetherin, which is involved in regulating EV71-induced upregulation of exosome secretion. In vivo studies showed that exosome-containing viral RNA exhibited differential tissue accumulation compared to free virus particles. Overall, these findings provide evidence that exosomes secreted by EV71-infected cells selectively package high-level miR-146a that can be functionally transferred to and facilitate exosomal EV71 RNA to replicate in the recipient cells by suppressing type I interferon response.
 Recent experimental evidence suggests that chromatin loops, characterized by connection pattern, distance between regulatory elements, and communication form, play a significant role in determining cell-to-cell variability in gene expression. To systematically understand how changes in these factors impact variability at the expression level, a modeling effect is needed. In this study, we develop a mechanistic model based on a 4–state model of stochastic transcription, which maps three fundamental patterns of two interacting DNA loops into this model.Our analysis reveals that in contrast to side-by-side loops, nested loops enhance mRNA expression and reduce expression noise, while alternating loops have the opposite effect. We also compare the effects of facilitated tracking and direct looping on gene expression and find that the former performs better in controlling mean expression and tuning expression noise, but this control or tuning is distance-dependent and remarkable for moderate loop lengths. There is a limit loop length such that the difference in effect between two communication forms almost disappears. Our results support the facilitated chromatin-looping hypothesis.Regulatory elements, such as enhancers and promoters, are essential for gene expression and can be divided into two families based on their proximity to the transcription start site. Complexity in gene expression arises from the ordered interactions among regulatory elements, leading to stochastic gene transcription and cell-to-cell variability. Enhancers, which can be several hundred kilobases away from the promoter they regulate, activate promoters by directly contacting binding sites for transcription factors and chromatin-modifying enzymes via DNA looping. The exact composition of core promoter elements may be a key determinant of enhancer-promoter specificity.When various possible regulatory elements and the distances among them are considered, how the corresponding communication mechanisms affect gene expression remains poorly understood and requires further studies. Additionally, the nature of chromatin loop formation and its involvement in gene regulation is not fully understood, and relevant experimental tests are required to verify the facilitated chromatin-looping hypothesis.
 This paper focuses on the dynamic behavior of gene transcription networks, specifically addressing the issue of context-dependent behavior caused by retroactivity. Retroactivity is a phenomenon similar to loading that influences the performance of modules upon connection to other modules. The authors establish an analysis framework for gene transcription networks that explicitly accounts for retroactivity, using three retroactivity matrices: internal, scaling, and mixing retroactivity. These matrices quantify the effect of intramodular and intermodular connections on a module's dynamics.The internal retroactivity matrix describes how intramodular connections affect an isolated module's dynamics, while scaling and mixing retroactivity matrices establish how intermodular connections change the dynamics of connected modules. By using these matrices and the dynamics of modules in isolation, the authors can accurately predict how loading will affect the behavior of an arbitrary interconnection of modules.The implications of internal, scaling, and mixing retroactivity are illustrated on various recurrent network motifs, such as negative autoregulation, combinatorial regulation, two-gene clocks, the toggle switch, and the single-input motif. The authors also provide a quantitative metric to determine the robustness of a module's dynamic behavior to interconnection with other modules. This metric can be employed to evaluate the extent of modularity in natural networks and to establish design guidelines for minimizing retroactivity between modules in synthetic systems.The authors begin by introducing a standard mechanistic model for gene transcription networks, which includes protein production, decay, and reversible binding reactions between transcription factors (TFs) and promoter sites. They then identify a transcriptional component with a node, and a transcription network as a set of interconnected nodes, where a node represents the transcriptional component producing a TF. The dynamics of a module are represented by equation (1), which can be partitioned into production/decay and binding/unbinding reactions.The authors then discuss retroactivity, which significantly alters the dynamic behavior of modules after interconnection. They provide a model for a single module without inputs and describe how retroactivity among nodes affects the module's dynamics. The authors obtain the first main result of the paper, which approximates the dynamics of a module in the isolated module with equations (5) and (6), where represents external perturbations to the module. The internal retroactivity of a module is described by equation (6), which quantifies how retroactivity among the nodes internal to the module affects the isolated module dynamics.The authors next consider the case when a module is inserted into its context and obtain equation (12), which describes the dynamics of a module connected to its context. They define the scaling and mixing retroactivity of the context, which account for the loading that the context applies on the module and the "mixing" of the dynamics of the module and its context, respectively. The authors illustrate the effects of retroactivity on the module's dynamics using a simple example and provide a metric for quantifying the difference between the isolated and connected module behavior.The authors conclude by discussing the implications of their findings for the analysis and design of gene regulatory networks and the potential applications in synthetic biology. They also mention some limitations of their framework, such as the lack of consideration of post-translational protein modifications and the dynamics of shared resources.
 The present work aims to develop a methodology for estimating the in vivo cell killing ability of chemotherapy using a mechanistic model of cancer response to treatment. The model takes into account cell repopulation between drug administrations and summarizes cancer biology through primary mechanisms such as uncontrolled cell proliferation, reversible dormancy, clonal heterogeneity, hypoxia, and attenuated apoptosis. The methodology is applied to NSCLC, specifically to cisplatin-based doublet regimens, and considers two types of tumor cell growth corresponding to the ADC and SCC histological subtypes. A comprehensive literature survey guides the selection of appropriate values for characteristic proliferation kinetics for the two subtypes. The sensitivity analysis reveals that the fraction of stem cells that perform symmetric divisions and the fraction of newborn cells that withdraw from the active cycle to a dormant phase have the most significant influence on the estimation of drug efficacy. The global sensitivity analysis demonstrates that the rate that a tumor grows in the absence of treatment (Td) and the GF at diagnosis are the most important determinants of the accuracy of CKR estimates. The model's robustness to the kinetics of apoptosis, necrosis, and stem cell resistance is also investigated. The methodology is applied to 13 real clinical cases of NSCLC, and the results demonstrate the potential utility of the proposed cancer model/methodology for personalized predictions of treatment response at diagnosis. Additionally, the study suggests that correlation studies between in vivo CKR estimates and the molecular profile of patients could serve as a basis for reliable personalized predictions.
 The Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome (AHDS) is a genetic neurological disorder characterized by severe psychomotor retardation, hypotonia, spastic paraplegia, lack of speech, and severe cognitive deficiency. AHDS is caused by mutations in the monocarboxylate transporter 8 (MCT8) gene, which is an X-linked gene. MCT8 is a thyroid hormone (TH) transporter, and AHDS patients exhibit endocrine alterations in their TH parameters, with decreased plasma concentration of the prohormone T4 and increased concentration of the active form T3. TH is essential for development, neurogenesis, growth, and metabolism, and its uptake into cells requires efficient transport across the cell membrane because T3 regulates gene transcription by binding to nuclear TH receptors (TRs). The underlying mechanism of AHDS is thought to involve a defect in the MCT8-dependent neuronal entry of T3, leading to impaired neurological development. However, the location of altered neuronal circuits and the nature of deficiencies remain elusive, and adequate treatment is not available.To elucidate the pathophysiological mechanisms of AHDS, researchers have generated animal models, including MCT8 knockout (KO) mice and zebrafish. MCT8 KO mice replicate the endocrine and metabolic abnormalities found in human patients but do not display any neurological or behavioral phenotypes. This is likely due to the pronounced expression of the anion transporting polypeptide 1C1 (OATP1C1), a specific T4 transporter, at the blood-brain barrier (BBB) in mice but not in humans. Therefore, development of an alternative animal model that lacks MCT8 and demonstrates AHDS-like neurological phenotypes is essential.The zebrafish is an ideal model for studying AHDS due to its transparency, which allows the visualization of neural circuit dynamics in live animals, and its conserved hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid (HPT) axis and emerging use in therapeutic drug screening. Researchers have recently isolated the zebrafish mct8 gene and promoter and shown that, as in humans, zebrafish MCT8 mediates TH uptake in cell lines. Knock-down of MCT8 in zebrafish larvae resulted in neurological abnormalities.In a recent study, researchers used the zinc-finger nuclease (ZFN) genome editing system to establish an MCT8 mutant (mct8−/−) zebrafish model. Using gene quantification and localization assays, as well as time-lapse imaging of single neuronal circuits and synapses in live animals and video-tracking of behavior, they found altered expression of myelin-related genes, circuit-specific deficiencies in axon branching and synaptic density, and altered locomotor activity and sleep in mct8−/− larvae. Comparative pharmacological assays demonstrated that TH analogs can restore a portion of the neurological phenotypes. These findings suggest a neurological mechanism and treatment for AHDS and potentially other related psychomotor retardation disorders.Deficiency in mobility and voluntary movements is a hallmark of AHDS, and includes the inability to sit, stand, or walk independently, as well as slow psychomotor reaction to sensory input. These symptoms, together with the myelin-related phenotype found in zebrafish, prompted researchers to test whether behavioral performance was altered in mct8−/− larvae. Using a video-tracking behavioral system, they found that mct8−/− larvae exhibited reduced overall activity during both day and night, as well as reduced maximum velocity and altered responses to day/night transitions. These findings suggest that MCT8 is involved in the mechanism that regulates locomotor activity and behavioral response to external stimuli.In summary, AHDS is a complex genetic neurological disorder characterized by severe psychomotor retardation, hypotonia, spastic paraplegia, lack of speech, and severe cognitive deficiency. The underlying mechanism is thought to involve a defect in the MCT8-dependent neuronal entry of TH, leading to impaired neurological development. However, the location of altered neuronal circuits and the nature of deficiencies remain elusive, and adequate treatment is not available. Research using animal models, such
 Natural selection drives populations towards higher fitness, but crossing fitness valleys or plateaus can be facilitated by population subdivision and migration. In this study, we investigate the effect of subdividing an asexual population on the time it takes to cross a fitness valley or plateau using a minimal model that includes only population subdivision into equivalent demes connected by global migration. We determine the optimal speedup of valley or plateau crossing that can be gained by subdivision, assuming the process is driven by the deme that crosses fastest. We show that isolated demes must be in the sequential fixation regime for subdivision to significantly accelerate crossing. Using Markov chain theory, we obtain analytical expressions for the conditions under which optimal speedup is achieved, and verify our analytical predictions through stochastic simulations. Our results demonstrate that subdivision can substantially accelerate the crossing of fitness valleys and plateaus over a wide range of parameters, both with respect to a non-subdivided population and with respect to a single deme. We also discuss the effect of varying the degree of subdivision and the trade-off between the magnitude of the optimal speedup and the width of the parameter range over which it occurs. Finally, we extend our work to weakly beneficial mutations and to a population connected to smaller islands. Our results demonstrate that subdivision with migration alone can significantly accelerate the crossing of fitness valleys and plateaus, and shed light onto the quantitative conditions necessary for this to occur.
 The nuclear pore complex (NPC) is a crucial gateway for material transport across the nuclear envelope (NE) in eukaryotic cells. Its structure is composed of various proteins, including nucleoporins (nups), and is highly conserved from yeast to vertebrates. Nucleocytoplasmic transport (NCT) occurs in a channel about 50 nm wide and in a millisecond time scale in vivo. The mechanism of NCT remains elusive, and current imaging techniques fail to capture the necessary time and spatial resolution. Coarse-grained simulations offer an alternative approach to study the NPC and NCT.In this study, a coarse-grained model of the unbiased functional state of the NPC was developed to investigate nucleocytoplasmic transport. The model considers the structural features of the NPC, including the three different groups of nups, and validates the transport of a common-size cargo-complex of 15 nm in diameter. The model predicts a mean first-passage time of 2.6±0.13 ms, with a radial probability distribution that suggests the cargo-complex is most likely found near the wall where it interacts with the FG-repeat layer. The kap-FG hydrophobic interactions were also examined, revealing a highly transient nature with an average lifetime of approximately 1.5 ns.The model also sheds light on the role of cytoplasmic filaments in the selectivity mechanism. In intact NPCs, only 7% of inert cargos could diffuse through the NPC and reach the nuclear basket, while in NPCs lacking cytoplasmic filaments, 46% of inert cargos could enter the central channel and diffuse to reach the nuclear basket. This indicates the defining role of cytoplasmic filaments in the selectivity barrier.The coarse-grained model can be used as a platform to examine transport hypotheses and suggest a plausible transport mechanism. It can also be used to study the mechanics of nups in NCT and related diseases, as protein mechanics have been suggested to have a role in disease conditions. A thorough understanding of NCT mechanism may allow for the development of new drugs that work by intervening in nucleocytoplasmic transport. However, limitations to the coarse-graining approach include poor information about the structural properties of the NPC and its building blocks, which can be addressed by experimental studies measuring material properties of the NPC under the same physiological conditions inside the cell.
 Staphylococcus aureus is a common bacterial pathogen that forms persistent infections through biofilms. Biofilms are complex structures composed of bacteria encased in a matrix of proteins, polysaccharides, extracellular DNA, and other environmental factors. The composition of the biofilm matrix can affect its resistance to disassembly, and this study investigated how growth media influences the matrix composition of S. aureus biofilms.The researchers grew S. aureus biofilms in two different media, tryptic soy broth supplemented with glucose (TSBg) and peptone-NaCl-glucose (PNG). They then used enzymes to test the biofilm resistance, including proteinase K, DNaseI, and dispersin B. Biofilms grown in TSBg rapidly disassembled after enzymatic treatment, while those grown in PNG did not. The researchers also assessed the ability of biofilms attached at the air-liquid interface of glass culture tubes to withstand exposure to an anionic surfactant, sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS). Again, biofilms grown in TSBg were more sensitive to surfactant-mediated disassembly than those grown in PNG.The researchers hypothesized that growth in PNG alters the matrix composition, increasing the biofilm's resistance to enzymatic degradation and surfactant dispersal. They grew biofilms in drip bioreactors under sensitive (TSBg) or resistant (PNG) conditions for five days and found that enzyme-resistant biofilms contained extracellular fibers, but not in enzyme-sensitive biofilms. The fibers had a central diameter of approximately 12 nm and were closely associated with bacterial cells. The researchers also observed identical fibers associated with biofilm cells in several lab strains and six clinical isolates.To identify the protein composing these fibers, they used two approaches to take advantage of the biophysical characteristics of functional bacterial amyloids. They isolated large insoluble structures from biofilm samples using SDS-PAGE and observed protein enrichment in the FA-treated sample. MS analysis identified the same peptides in each sample, regardless of the band's migration through the gel matrix. These proteins were the alpha (αPSM) phenol soluble modulins and the S. aureus delta hemolysin (δ-toxin).The researchers also isolated fibers from biofilm cells using a tissue homogenizer, incubated fiber isolates for 48 hours at pH 2 with pepsin, and analyzed the sample with MS. They detected the same αPSM peptides present in the SDS-PAGE isolation, plus two beta PSMs (βPSM). αPSM3 was not identified in either preparation, but it likely would not be detected after extensive digestion due to its sequence containing several trypsin cleavage sites.The same fiber isolation procedure revealed no visible fibers by TEM when biofilms were grown in TSBg. They generated an ΔαβPSM double-knockout mutant and assessed fiber production. TEM analysis of biofilm cells revealed that this mutant did not produce fibers after five days of growth in PNG media compared to the wildtype parent strain grown under the same conditions. Fibers could be isolated from wildtype but not mutant biofilms, and fiber production was complemented by expression of the αpsm and βpsm operons in trans.The researchers assayed synthetic PSMs peptides for their capacity to form fibers in vitro. They observed a robust increase in normalized fluorescence and greater peptide concentration increased ThT fluorescence and showed rapid binding kinetics similar to an amyloid-nucleator system. PSM fibers exposed to ThT exhibited an emission spike near 490 nm that is also observed in other amyloid fibrils. Incubation of PSM fibers with the dye Congo red resulted in a characteristic absorbance “red shift,” indicative of cross β structure conserved in all amyloid fibers. Furthermore, PSM fibers isolated from solution through centrifugation displayed increased β-sheet content, which is consistent with data published from other bacterial amyloids.These in vitro observations complement the genetic and physiological data, further supporting the notion that PSMs can form amyloid fibrils. The researchers also challenged 
 The Type II Secretion System (T2SS) in bacteria is a molecular machine that drives the secretion of fully-folded protein substrates across the outer membrane. The machinery includes a secretin, an integral outer membrane protein that forms the secretion pore. Three distinct forms of T2SSs can be distinguished based on the sequence characteristics of their secretin pores. The Klebsiella-type and Vibrio-type T2SSs have been further analyzed, with the pilotin being a key difference between them. The pilotin mediates transport and assembly into the outer membrane. The crystal structure of the novel pilotin AspS from Vibrio cholerae has been determined, demonstrating convergent evolution as it is functionally equivalent to pilotins found in Klebsiella and other bacteria but structurally unrelated. AspS binds to a specific targeting sequence in the Vibrio-type secretins, enhances the kinetics of secretin assembly, and homologs of AspS are found in all species of Vibrio as well as a few strains of Escherichia and Shigella that have acquired a Vibrio-type T2SS. Bacterial outer membranes incorporate proteins of at least three well-characterized architectures: β-barrel proteins, lipoproteins, and secretins. Secretins are integral proteins which assemble to form multimeric secretion channels in the outer membrane. The T2SS secretin is assembled into a functional multimer by EPEC using a distinct lipoprotein AspS as the pilotin, while YacC, a previously uncharacterized protein with the sequence characteristics of T2SS pilotins, does not function as a pilotin for the assembly of GspD secretin in EPEC. The PulS-OutS protein family was initially derived from conserved domain architecture statistics of four protein sequences, and the current version of Pfam lists 174 non-redundant PulS-OutS protein family members. The hidden Markov model analysis identified a protein called YacC in EPEC, which has limited sequence identity to the E. coli pilotin EtpO but conforms partly to the conserved domain architecture of the PulS-OutS protein family. However, YacC does not function as a pilotin for the assembly of GspD secretin in EPEC, and instead, a distinct lipoprotein AspS functions as the pilotin for GspD in EPEC. The crystal structure of AspS shows it to have no structural similarity whatsoever to the PulS-OutS family of proteins. The T2SS from EPEC and V. cholerae secrete similar substrates, but no PulS-OutS pilotin has been detected previously in genome sequences of V. cholerae, and no high-scoring sequences were detected with the HMM search of the genome of the type strain V. cholerae O1 biovar El Tor N16961. However, using a BLAST search with AspS as a query, the protein sequence VC1703 was detected in this V. cholerae genome and found to have very high sequence similarity to AspS from EPEC. AspS-related protein sequences were found in all strains of V. cholerae and other species of the genus Vibrio, and in Shigella boydii ATCC 9905 and Shigella sp. D9. The T2SS from EPEC and V. cholerae secrete similar substrates, and the expression of the genes encoding cholera toxin and AcfD is known to be co-regulated. In EPEC, SslE secretion is required for biofilm formation, and in V. cholerae, AcfD secretion is required for intestinal colonization. It is unclear how the T2SS secretin is assembled in organisms that secrete SslE/AcfD: EPEC does not encode the pilotin EtpO, and V. cholerae genomes have not been reported to encode any members of the PulS-OutS family of proteins. We sought to better understand how the T2SS secretin is assembled into a functional multimer by EPEC. Hidden Markov model analysis of the genome identified a protein called YacC, which, while having only 21% sequence identity to the E. coli pilotin EtpO, has the conserved features of the PulS-OutS family of proteins. However, YacC does not function as a pilotin
 Burkholderia pseudomallei is a bacterium that can cause the disease melioidosis in humans, despite producing the siderophore malleobactin, which is crucial for iron acquisition in many other bacteria. Surprisingly, a clinical isolate, 708a, lacking the complete malleobactin biosynthetic gene cluster remained fully virulent in a murine melioidosis model. To understand the role of other iron acquisition systems in B. pseudomallei, the authors deleted the major siderophore malleobactin (mba) and pyochelin (pch) gene clusters and investigated their contribution to virulence.The results showed that while mba and pch deletions led to reduced siderophore production, the strains still produced halos on CAS plates, indicating the presence of other siderophores. The authors also found that B. pseudomallei can produce salicylate, a known siderophore, in the absence of PchA and PchB, the first two enzymes in the pyochelin biosynthetic pathway.Furthermore, the authors investigated the role of hemin uptake in B. pseudomallei by deleting the hmu and hem loci. They found that Hmu is required for utilization of hemin and hemoglobin, while Hem cannot complement a Hmu deficiency. Prolonged incubation of a hmu hem mutant in hemoglobin-containing minimal medium yielded variants able to utilize hemoglobin and hemin, suggesting alternate pathways for utilization of these two host iron sources.Lactoferrin utilization was dependent on malleobactin but not pyochelin synthesis and/or uptake. A mba pch hmu hem quadruple mutant could use ferritin as an iron source and upon intranasal infection was lethal in an acute murine melioidosis model. These data suggest that B. pseudomallei may employ a novel ferritin-iron acquisition pathway as a means to sustain in vivo growth. Overall, this study provides important insights into the iron acquisition mechanisms of B. pseudomallei and their role in virulence.
 This study investigated the impact of Schistosoma mansoni infection during pregnancy and praziquantel treatment on the immune responses of offspring at age five years. The study found no evidence that maternal S. mansoni infection or praziquantel treatment during pregnancy influenced the prevalence of S. mansoni infection among the offspring. However, children of mothers with S. mansoni during pregnancy had lower IL-10 responses to SWA and higher IL-10 responses to SWA after praziquantel treatment. This suggests that maternal S. mansoni and its treatment during pregnancy may affect immunoregulatory responsiveness in childhood schistosomiasis, which could have implications for pathogenesis of the disease. The study also noted that children who were resident in peri-urban areas were more likely to be infected with S. mansoni, highlighting the importance of addressing preschool children in schistosomiasis control programs. Overall, the findings provide valuable insights into the complex relationship between maternal S. mansoni infection, praziquantel treatment, and immune responses in offspring. Further research is needed to fully understand the implications of these findings for childhood schistosomiasis.
 Hox proteins, which play fundamental roles in controlling morphogenetic diversity along the anterior-posterior body axis of animals, regulate distinct sets of target genes through a combinatorial interaction with other transcription factors on small, modular Hox response elements (HREs). The regulation of the cell death gene reaper (rpr) by the Hox protein Deformed (Dfd) is achieved through a combinatorial interaction of Dfd with at least eight functionally diverse transcriptional regulators on a minimal enhancer. These findings suggest that context-dependent combinations of Hox proteins and other transcription factors on small HREs are responsible for the spatio-temporal expression of Hox target genes in vivo.To study the regulation of rpr by Dfd in detail, a minimal rpr-4S3/3′ enhancer able to recapitulate endogenous expression in the maxillary segment was isolated. The 3′ part of the enhancer, which contains all previously defined Dfd binding sites, was sufficient to drive lacZ expression in a few cells located in the anterior part of the maxillary segment. However, mutating all Dfd binding sites in the rpr-4S3/3′ enhancer led to an increase in lacZ expression in the anterior part of all segments, indicating that the Dfd binding sites are not exclusively used for activation but also for repression of rpr transcription.Using a co-expression strategy, seven transcription factors were identified that modulate Dfd-dependent rpr expression: Apt and Gcm activated reporter gene expression, while Brk, Disco, En, and Slp1 repressed lacZ expression. Two of these factors, En and Slp1, have recently been shown to assist Hox proteins in target gene regulation. The effects of these factors on the rpr-4S3/3′ enhancer are specific, as shown by a reduction of rpr transcripts in embryos mutant for the individual transcription factor genes and a loss of the maxillary-mandibular boundary in some mutants.In summary, the findings from this study demonstrate that proper spatio-temporal Hox target gene regulation is achieved by the combined action of multiple transcriptional regulators: the Hox proteins themselves and a large number of structurally diverse transcription factors. The interaction with additional transcription factors is essential for the precise modulation and fine-tuning of Hox target gene regulation, even on the level of the individual cell.
 The antiproliferative response to anticancer treatment involves complex responses in all cell cycle phases and subsequent generations, which is not fully captured by current methods. A proposed experimental/computational approach uses time-lapse live cell microscopy and flow cytometric data to render the proliferative process through the cell cycle and subsequent generations during and after treatment. The effects of treatments are modeled with modules describing the functional activity of main pathways causing arrest, repair, and cell death in each phase. The framework enables the application of different types of modules in each phase and generation, and the models are tested with time-course measures taken in parallel with flow cytometry and time-lapse live cell microscopy in X-ray-treated human ovarian cancer cells. The final model provides a complete rendering in silico of the cycling process following X-ray exposure, providing separate and quantitative measures of the dose-dependence of G1, S, and G2M checkpoint activities in subsequent generations. The method enables a detailed study of the mechanisms concurring to build the response to anticancer treatment at the cell population level, providing a unifying view of the effects of radiation and disclosing the dynamics of checkpoint activities and their dose-dependence. The model is also used as a basis to explore the consequences of default or potentiation of specific checkpoints, which could become feasible with new, molecularly targeted co-treatments or may occur in tumors with particular genetic defects. The model works at a high complexity level, including details of the effects in each phase and generation at different treatment doses, and is used to simulate different experimental plans with maximum flexibility.
 The bacterial global regulator H-NS plays a crucial role in silencing horizontally acquired DNA (HGT) to maintain the stability of the bacterial genome and facilitate successful colonization of various niches, including the human host. H-NS interacts with both core genome and HGT genes, but its regulation of these two gene lineages differs. Plasmid R27-encoded H-NS protein selectively silences HGT genes without interfering with core genome regulation, while chromosomally-encoded H-NS targets both HGT and core genomic DNA but differentially modulates them using the Hha protein as a helper. The H-NS system in enteric bacteria presents unique evolutionary features, as the capacity to selectively discriminate between core and HGT DNA may help maintain horizontally transmitted DNA in silent form and provide a competitive advantage in adapting to new environments. Plasmid R27, a common conjugative plasmid in Salmonella enterica, encodes both hns and hha genes, and both chromosomal and plasmid-encoded H-NS and Hha proteins interact to modulate R27 transfer. The H-NS system's ability to selectively target HGT DNA may contribute to reducing the fitness cost of housing HGT DNA and maintaining the intrinsic regulation of housekeeping genes.
 This study examines the development of neutralizing antibody (Nab) responses in 21 women who were superinfected with HIV-1 after an initial infection. Superinfection is defined as sequential infections from different source partners and has been shown to lead to broader and more potent Nab responses compared to single infections. However, it is unclear whether superinfection also impacts epitope specificity and if the epitopes targeted after superinfection differ from those targeted after single infection.Plasma samples were collected from the women at a median time point of 2.72 years post-superinfection and analyzed for Nab responses against four main epitopes on the HIV-1 Envelope: the membrane proximal external region (MPER) in gp41, the CD4-binding site, glycopeptide residues in the V1/V2 region, and the V3 loop. Using standard epitope mapping techniques and computational sera delineation analyses, the study found that none of the women developed a dominant Nab response to any one of these epitopes. Additionally, 20 of the 21 women's Nab responses could not be ascribed a single specificity with high confidence.These data suggest that superinfection with diverse HIV-1 subtypes promotes the development of a broad polyclonal Nab response, which would provide support for vaccine designs using multivalent HIV immunogens to elicit a diverse repertoire of Nabs. The study is the first to examine the Nab specificities in a cohort of superinfected individuals and provides insight into the development of a broad and potent Nab response following superinfection. The study was approved by ethical review committees and written informed consent was obtained from all participants.
 Linear Mixed Models (LMMs) have gained popularity for adjusting for population substructure and relatedness in genome-wide association studies (GWAS). Several LMM methods and software implementations, including EMMAX, GenABEL, FaST-LMM, Mendel, and MMM, have been developed. This study compared the performance of these approaches using a real GWAS dataset of visceral leishmaniasis in 348 Brazilian families and simulated data. The implementations differed in methodology and user-chosen options, such as the method and number of SNPs used to estimate the kinship matrix. The study found strong concordance between the results from different LMM approaches and high correlation with alternative approaches, except for transmission-based approaches when applied to SNPs with small or non-existent effects. All LMM approaches were successful in controlling the genome-wide error rate, except for some approaches when applied naively to longitudinal data with many repeated measures. The study concluded that LMM approaches perform well in comparison to competing approaches, but the choice of precise LMM implementation cannot be based on power or type I error considerations but must instead be based on considerations such as speed and ease-of-use. The study also investigated the use of different SNP sets for estimating pairwise kinship measures and found that a pruned set of SNPs provided robust estimates. Ethical approval for the study was obtained from relevant institutions and informed consent was obtained from participants.
 This study investigated the phenomenon of transient associations among neurons and how they underlie memory and behavior. The researchers recorded ongoing local field potential (LFP) activity at multiple sites within the cortex of awake monkeys and organotypic cultures of cortex. They found that when the composite activity of a local neuronal group exceeds a threshold, its activity pattern, as reflected in the LFP, occurs without distortion at other cortex sites via fast synaptic transmission. These large-amplitude LFPs, called coherence potentials, last up to hundreds of milliseconds and mark periods of loss-less spread of temporal and amplitude information. Coherence potentials have an additional degree of freedom in the diversity of their waveforms, which provides a high-dimensional parameter for encoding information and allows identification of particular associations. The results suggest that the cortex forms transient associations through a nonlinear process that is analogous to the spread of ideas and behaviors in social networks. The study used arrays of monopolar tungsten electrodes chronically implanted into the cortex of two adult rhesus monkeys and organotypic cortex slice cultures prepared from postnatal day 1-2 old rats. The researchers analyzed the effects of changes in synaptic transmission by adding DNQX or picrotoxin directly into the medium of the cultures and recorded spontaneous LFP activity for up to 5 hours. They calculated correlations between the LFP triggers and periods of equal duration on each other electrode to evaluate the spatial spread of coherence potentials. The controls included random periods of similar duration, amplitude-matched nLFPs, and an overall greater similarity between large amplitude deflections. The study also performed time-shift analysis to identify the shift corresponding to the highest correlation and calculated intervals between successive correlated periods. Additionally, they quantified amplitude similarity as a function of nLFP trigger amplitude and calculated best-match correlations and peak-to-peak time differences for each pairwise combination of coherence potentials. The power spectrums of coherence potentials were calculated using the Fast Fourier transform, and the phase dependency of coherence potentials was studied by calculating the FFT of the original coherence potentials, shuffling phase angles, and obtaining a new LFP time course using the inverse FFT. The researchers made comparisons of the aggregate or summed unit activity at each electrode to ensure they were working with the maximal amount of unit data and used the dot product between two vectors to quantify the similarity in unit activity patterns between electrodes. They kept the duration of comparison constant and restricted the comparisons to cases where there were exactly two unit occurrences during the period of comparison. The study used the KS test for statistical significance between dissimilar distributions and regression analysis for curve fitting. Significance was established at p<0.05.
 In budding yeast, polarized exocytosis and endocytosis are coupled transport cycles that maintain membrane expansion and polarization. Polarized exocytosis delivers Sec4p, a Rab GTPase, to specific locations on the cell cortex, which in turn induces cortical actin polymerization and triggers compensatory endocytosis. Sec4p binds to Las17p (WASp homologue) in a complex with Sla1p and Sla2p during actin patch assembly. Mutations that inactivate Sec4p or its GEF Sec2p inhibit actin patch formation, while the activating sec4-Q79L mutation accelerates patch assembly. In vitro assays show that GTPγS-Sec4p overrides Sla1p inhibition of Las17p-dependent actin nucleation. This model suggests that Sec4p relocates along the plasma membrane from polarized sites of exocytic vesicle fusion to nascent sites of endocytosis, promoting actin polymerization and triggering compensatory endocytosis. This mechanism prevents the escape of membrane proteins from the bud and reinforces the separation between mother and daughter cells provided by the septin barrier. While Cdc42 plays a central role in integrating exocytosis and endocytosis in metazoans, the inter-relationship between Cdc42 and transport cycles involving polarized exocytosis and endocytosis in yeast is unclear.
 Miltefosine, an anti-cancer drug, has shown promising effects against Schistosoma mansoni and Schistosoma haematobium, targeting all life cycle stages of the parasite. In the current study, the effect of treating S. mansoni adult worms with miltefosine on exposure of worm surface antigens was examined. The results revealed that miltefosine treatment led to the exposure of four main proteins having molecular sizes of approximately 23, 33, 37, and 120–130 kDa. These proteins were detected in blots of S. mansoni worm homogenate extract reacted against by both the anti-SmI and the anti-SmWH antibodies that had been acid-eluted off the surface of treated worms. The protein bands at ~23 (pr23) and ~37 (pr37) kDa in the SmWH extract were purified by excision and elution from the gel films used for SDS-PAGE. The immunodominant band detected following treatment with miltefosine at ~33 kDa (pr37) was also purified from SDS-PAGE bearing the fractionated crude worm proteins. The purified protein bands at ~33 kDa, ~23, and 37 kDa from SmWH were subjected to MS/MS mass spectrometry, and the results identified them as S. mansoni fructose-bisphosphate aldolase (SmFBPA), S. mansoni tegument protein Sm22.6, and S. mansoni malate dehydrogenase (SmMLD), respectively. The rabbit anti-S. mansoni antibodies eluted from treated worms recognized these proteins, confirming that treatment induced antigen exposure. The protein exposed by miltefosine treatment at ~120–130 kDa was identified as the SmAP protein using indirect immunofluorescence assays and western blotting. Schistosomula that had agglutinated were also positive in indirect immunofluorescence labelling of their surfaces. Overall, the study reveals a novel mode of action of miltefosine as an anti-schistosome agent and suggests that the exposed antigens could have potential as intervention targets and antibodies against these antigens may act to increase the drug’s anti-parasite efficacy and be involved in the development of resistance to re-infection.
 This study investigates the role of Myosin VI, a minus-end-directed motor, in the enrichment of proteins on the surface of axons. Previous research has shown that Myosin Va, a plus-end-motor, plays a critical role in targeting transmembrane proteins to dendrites. However, the function of myosin motors in axonal targeting is unknown. In this study, the authors show that Myosin VI plays a vital role in the enrichment of proteins on the surface of axons by stimulating dendrite-specific endocytosis, a mechanism that has been shown to underlie the localization of many axonal proteins. They also find that a version of Channelrhodopsin 2 engineered to bind to Myosin VI is concentrated at the surface of the axon in mice in vivo, suggesting it could be a useful tool for probing circuit structure and function. Overall, these results indicate that myosins help shape the polarized distributions of both axonal and dendritic proteins.After synthesis in the secretory pathway, axonal and dendritic transmembrane proteins follow distinct transport pathways to the plasma membrane. Axonal proteins enter both axons and dendrites, while dendritic proteins are transported directly to the somatodendritic domain without entering the distal axonal domain. Axonal proteins that are carried to the dendrites are unloaded onto the plasma membrane and subsequently reloaded into vesicles that travel to the axonal membrane. The net effect of these processes is that axonal transmembrane proteins are distributed roughly evenly to the intracellular regions of both the axon and dendrites, but are dramatically enriched on the axonal membrane. The transport of both axonal and dendritic proteins is mediated by kinesin motors. However, targeting of dendritic proteins cannot be explained by the intrinsic properties of dendritic kinesins, and recent work from the laboratory indicates that vesicles are targeted to dendrites through the actions of plus-end-directed myosin motors, which direct the vesicles away from the axon and towards the cell body. Of the 35 known classes of myosin motors, only one, Myosin VI, is known to move towards the pointed (or minus) end of actin filaments. The involvement of Myosin VI in endocytosis further suggests that it might contribute to the enrichment of proteins on the surface of the axon.The authors engineered non-neuronal proteins to interact with Myosin VI and found that they became highly concentrated at the axonal surface in dissociated rat cortical neurons. Disruption of either Myosin VI function or expression led to aberrant dendritic localization of axonal proteins. Myosin VI mediates the enrichment of proteins on the axonal surface at least in part by enhancing dendrite-specific endocytosis. Additionally, a version of Channelrhodopsin 2 engineered to bind to Myosin VI was concentrated at the surface of the axon in mice in vivo, suggesting it could be a useful tool for probing circuit structure and function.In summary, this study provides evidence that Myosin VI plays a role in the enrichment of proteins on the surface of axons by stimulating dendrite-specific endocytosis. The findings suggest that myosin motors contribute to the enrichment of both axonal and dendritic proteins at the plasma membranes of the appropriate polar compartments, which is necessary for proper electrical signaling.
 The consensus that complexity leads to stability in ecological systems has been challenged since the 1970s, with studies showing that large, random ecosystems may be unstable. May's seminal work in the 1970s using random matrix theory assumed that systems were at equilibrium and derived a criterion for system stability. However, it remained silent on the feasibility of the equilibria. Later studies found that feasibility was vanishing in species-rich systems, leaving the existence of a feasible equilibrium in complex systems uncertain.The interplay between interaction strength and network architecture is crucial for understanding ecosystem dynamics. In unstructured systems, feasibility is not guaranteed, and stability criteria are trivially satisfied with weak interactions. However, including realistic structure in trophic systems yields different results. For example, the niche and nested-hierarchy models generate structured food webs with negative growth rates and non-trivial equilibrium abundances.The feasibility of a system is essential for stability analysis, as it determines whether the community matrix used in the analysis is meaningful. Future work on dynamical stability should be preceded by a feasibility analysis, which involves knowledge of the structure and intensity of interactions and growth rates. The results indicate that sensible information on the dynamics of natural systems will be obtained by focusing on the interplay between ecological structure, interaction weights, and their distribution in the architecture.However, there are still many other aspects to consider, such as system size, the relationship between trophic position and interaction strength, and the estimation of demographic parameters. The choice of functional response models, the effects of ecosystem engineers, and non-linearities in species interactions are also important. The gap between theoretical and empirical investigations is likely to remain open, and more effort must be devoted to obtaining empirical and experimental time series as necessary benchmarks.
 Vibrio cholerae bacterium colonizes both marine environments and the human gastrointestinal tract, utilizing a multifunctional protein named GlcNAc binding protein A (GbpA) for attachment to different niches. GbpA possesses an unusual, elongated four-domain structure, with domains 1 and 4 exhibiting structural homology to chitin binding domains. Domain 1 interacts with chitin in vitro, while domain 1 is crucial for mucin binding and intestinal colonization. Domains 2 and 3 bind to the V. cholerae surface, and only the first three domains are required for colonization.GbpA's structure was determined using X-ray crystallography and small angle X-ray scattering, revealing three distinct domains rich in β-structure. Domain 1 consists of a four-stranded and a three-stranded β-sheet forming a β-sandwich, with a pseudo-domain between β-strands 1 and 3. Domain 2 shows distant structural similarities to the β-domain of the flagellin protein p5, while domain 3 has an immunoglobulin fold with significant structural similarity to over 200 structures in the PDB. The C-terminal domain 4, which shows 26% sequence identity with the C-terminal chitin-binding domain of S. marcescens chitinase B, was not crystallized but is likely to possess an all-β secondary structure.GbpA selectively binds chito-oligosaccharides of varying lengths and binds to α/β chitin, mucin, and intestinal epithelial cells. Domain 1 interacts with both mucin and certain types of chitin, while domains 2 and 3 are required for interaction with the bacterial surface. Competitive mucin binding assays and immunoblot analysis suggest that domain 1 is essential for mucin binding, while domain 4 is dispensable.In summary, GbpA is a multifunctional protein that plays a crucial role in V. cholerae's ability to colonize various environments. Its unique structure and modular interaction properties enable it to bind to both mucin and chitin, providing V. cholerae with versatile binding properties.
 This study explores the impact of sulforaphane (SFN), a natural compound found in cruciferous vegetables, on HIV infection in primary macrophages. Macrophages play a crucial role in HIV infection and pathogenesis, forming long-lived viral reservoirs and carrying virus into restricted compartments like the brain. SFN is a potent mobilizer of the transcription factor nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), which is held in check by its constitutive degradation through CUL3 ubiquitin ligase complexes using the protein KEAP1 as a substrate adaptor. When Nrf2 accumulates, it translocates into the nucleus, partners with musculoaponeurotic fibrosarcoma protein (Maf), and initiates transcription from antioxidant response elements (ARE).The researchers found that SFN blocks HIV infection in primary macrophages but not in primary T cells or other cell lines. This effect is mediated through Nrf2, as shown by a decrease in luciferase activity and an increase in the percentage of GFP (+) cells in HIV-1 and HIV-2 infected cultures. SFN blocks infection after entry but before the formation of 2-LTR circles, as evidenced by a decrease in viral capsid protein and 2-LTR circles in infected cultures.SFN's anti-viral action is not due to decreased cell viability, as indicated by sustained metabolic activity in primary hMDMs and T cells, HeLa, GHOST, HEK293T, U937, and THP1 cells. The anti-viral effect induced by SFN treatment is reversible, and the duration over which the anti-viral state is maintained depends on the SFN dose.The study also investigated the impact of SFN on HIV-2 infection and whether SFN action is reporter-dependent. The results demonstrated that SFN pretreatment blocks infection at or before reporter production from integrated proviruses, as shown by a decrease in luciferase activity and the percentage of GFP (+) cells in HIV-1 and HIV-2 infected cultures.Overall, this study provides new insights into the mechanism by which SFN blocks HIV infection in macrophages and highlights a novel way to trigger this inhibition. The findings could lead to the development of new therapeutic strategies to overcome the limitations of current HIV treatments and support prevention and cure strategies.
 The study aimed to optimize a high-throughput screening (HTS) assay for discovering new compounds that inhibit Trypanosoma cruzi (T. cruzi), the parasite responsible for Chagas disease. A 2000-compound library was screened using a T. cruzi strain stably expressing the β-galactosidase (β-gal) gene, and three hits (PCH1, NT1, and CX1) were identified based on their high activity against T. cruzi and low toxicity to host cells. Each compound exhibited distinct mechanisms of action against intracellular T. cruzi amastigotes, with CX1 showing strong trypanocidal activity, NT1 having a trypanostatic effect, and PCH1 affecting parasite division. The three hits also demonstrated high activity against intracellular T. cruzi from the Y strain and against related kinetoplastid species Leishmania major and L. amazonensis. Two additional compounds (PCH6 and CX2) were selected based on their IC50 values, which were approximately 100 times lower than those of current drugs used against T. cruzi. The results provide new candidate molecules for the development of treatments against Chagas disease and leishmaniasis.
 Bistability, a property of dynamical systems that allows for the coexistence of two stable equilibria, plays a central role in various essential biological functions, including cellular differentiation and cell cycle control. Establishing the network topologies that exhibit bistability remains a challenge due to the vast variety of gene regulatory networks (GRNs) that exist for even a small number of components. To address this problem, researchers employed chemical reaction network theory (CRNT) in a comprehensive in silico survey to determine the capacity for bistability in more than 40,000 simple networks formed by two transcription factor-coding genes and their associated proteins.The study found that approximately 90% of these GRN models exhibit reaction rate constants leading to bistability, including several circuits that do not contain any TF cooperativity commonly associated with bistable systems. Eleven minimal bistable networks were identified, which are bistable networks that do not contain within them a smaller bistable subnetwork. The large number of previously unknown bistable network topologies suggests that the capacity for switch-like behavior in GRNs arises with relative ease and is not easily lost through network evolution.Using experimental protein-protein interaction, protein-DNA interaction, and gene expression data from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, researchers demonstrated the predictive power of a systematic theoretical survey in identifying bistable modules in organisms that have not been fully explored from a functional genomics perspective. The results are further suggestive of a role for parameter-free modeling in simplifying the study of complex regulatory networks, understanding network evolution, and designing new synthetic biological circuits.The study assumed classical chemical kinetics and specified GRNs as sets of elementary biochemical reactions, including basal protein production and degradation, protein dimerization, and binding of TF monomers and dimers to gene promoters. Using CRNT, researchers identified 18,352 networks out of 40,680 that have the capacity for multiple steady states, with 14,721 of these being confirmed as bistable with example rate constants. The study also identified 2,654 networks that cannot be bistable regardless of the parameter values and 19,674 networks for which the capacity for multiple steady states could not be established or ruled out. The fraction of networks of a given size that are unknown increases as the size increases.The study identified two smallest bistable networks, each containing seven reactions, which can be grown into new eight-reaction networks through the addition of reactions from the set of 23 additional reactions. The study also demonstrated that bistability, once established in a parent network, is not guaranteed in any descendant network but can be established if the stoichiometric subspace of the descendant network is identical to that of the parent.The study used the results of the in silico analysis to motivate a search of existing yeast protein-DNA and protein-protein interaction data and identified a number of two-gene systems with topologies consistent with bistability. The study emphasized that while the two-gene networks identified through the analysis are not guaranteed to be bistable, their known topologies and functions make them excellent bistable network candidates, providing powerful hypotheses for further experimentation. The same approach may be used to provide guidance or functional context to any system for which the necessary interaction data is available.High-throughput parameter-free analysis holds potential as a tool for the study of natural systems and as a design aid in the growing field of synthetic biology. The study proposed a set of novel bistable networks that lack cooperativity and may be particularly good designs as a result. At the very least, such a broad application of CRNT may be used to rule out circuits incapable of bistability or those which cannot exhibit sustained oscillations or absolute concentration robustness. However, it is worth emphasizing that the region of parameter space supporting bistability in any individual network cannot be determined via parameter-free techniques alone. Once identified, potentially interesting network architectures may be analyzed in more detail with rate constants chosen by Monte Carlo sampling of parameter space.
 Lymphatic filariasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by filarial parasites, leading to lymphedema and elephantiasis. The pathogenesis of this disease involves both parasite-induced lymphatic dysfunction and immune-mediated responses. Lymphatic endothelial cells (LEC) play a crucial role in lymphatic function, and their interactions with filarial parasites and antigens have been studied in vitro.Human LEC were exposed to filarial antigens, live parasites, or infected patient serum to evaluate their response. Live filarial parasites or filarial antigens induced significant LEC proliferation and differentiation into tube-like structures in vitro. Serum from patently infected individuals with microfilariae or chronic lymphatic obstruction also induced significantly increased LEC proliferation compared to uninfected individuals. Differentiation of LEC into tube-like networks was associated with significantly increased levels of matrix metalloproteases and inhibition of their TIMP inhibitors.Microarray analysis revealed that filarial parasites altered the expression of genes involved in cellular organization and development as well as those associated with junction adherence pathways, decreasing trans-endothelial transport. The data suggest that filarial parasites directly induce lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic differentiation, providing insight into the mechanisms underlying the pathology seen in lymphatic filariasis.
 Plant-pathogenic Xanthomonas bacteria use transcription activator-like effectors (TALEs) to activate target genes in host cells, which support bacterial virulence. TALEs have a unique DNA-binding domain composed of tandem repeats, each containing repeat variable diresidues (RVDs) that determine target specificity. In this study, a novel approach called PrediTALE is proposed for TALE target prediction, which accounts for recent findings on TALE targeting, including frame-shift binding by repeats of aberrant lengths and the flexible strand orientation of target boxes. PrediTALE can improve prediction performance compared to previous approaches, as demonstrated using RNA-seq data from rice infected with Xanthomonas. However, some TALEs were found to have no predicted targets, which are termed orphan TALEs. The authors suggest that this may be due to incomplete gene annotations and propose replacing promoterome-wide scans for target boxes with genome-wide scans. Using genome-wide scans, known targets were recovered, and new putative targets were identified, some of which were independent of existing gene annotations. Overall, PrediTALE is a valuable tool for accurately predicting TALE target boxes and identifying virulence targets, which is essential for understanding plant-pathogen interactions.
 The OmpR regulatory protein of Gram-negative bacteria plays a crucial role in governing gene networks that enable adaptation to various niches, including pathogenic interactions with host organisms. While the DNA binding protein OmpR is identical between Salmonella Typhimurium and Escherichia coli, regulatory specialization has led to different environmental triggers and largely divergent OmpR regulons. For instance, ompR mRNA and protein levels are elevated by acid pH in S. Typhimurium but not in E. coli, due to differences in the promoter regions of the ompR genes. The OmpR regulon in S. Typhimurium overlaps that of E. coli at only 15 genes and includes many horizontally acquired genes, such as virulence genes, that E. coli does not have. OmpR binds to its genomic targets in higher abundance when the DNA is relaxed, which is a requirement for optimal expression of its virulence genes. The genomic targets of OmpR do not share a strong nucleotide sequence consensus, and the ability of OmpR to recruit additional genes to its regulon arises from its modest requirements for specificity in its DNA targets and its preference for relaxed DNA, allowing it to cooperate with DNA-topology-based allostery to modulate transcription in response to acid stress. The relationship between a given regulatory protein and its target genes is subject to evolutionary change, allowing genes to join or to leave a given regulon over time. Four types of variation have been described: changes in the presence/absence and the distribution of binding sites for a common regulatory protein at orthologous targets, genes acquired via lateral transfer coming under the control of a regulator already established in the cell, architectural adjustment of a promoter under the control of a regulator to add or subtract regulatory influence, and changes that affect the DNA binding protein itself. The OmpR DNA binding protein of Gram-negative bacteria has the potential to govern collectives of genes whose membership is subject to change due to its modest specificity for its DNA targets and its ability to respond to more than one environmental signal. This flexibility allows it to participate in regulon evolution from the standpoint of regulatory signal reception. The OmpR/EnvZ two-component system consists of a sensor kinase (EnvZ) and a response regulator DNA binding protein (OmpR), and the EnvZ protein has two trans-membrane helices, a periplasmic domain, and a cytoplasmic domain that undergoes auto-phosphorylation at His-243. Environmental signal transduction involves phosphorylation of OmpR on Asp-55 by EnvZ, and this regulatory system has been shown to transmit an osmotic stress signal in E. coli, among the OmpR targets being the ompF and ompC genes that encode major porin proteins located in the outer membrane. Recent evidence shows that EnvZ senses changes in osmolarity through its cytoplasmic domain. Both S. Typhimurium and E. coli employ general resistance mechanisms that allow them to tolerate external pH values outside the preferred cytoplasmic range. Despite being very closely related at the genetic level, E. coli is much more acid-tolerant than S. Typhimurium. It can survive pH 2 for several hours whereas S. Typhimurium dies rapidly under these conditions. In S. Typhimurium, OmpR plays an important role in infection and ompR knockout mutants are attenuated for virulence in mice. OmpR regulates the transcription of a number of horizontally acquired genes that are not present in E. coli and are key to S. Typhimurium virulence, including the hilC and hilD regulatory genes in the SPI-1 pathogenicity island, a 40-kb genetic element that encodes a type III secretion system and effector proteins required for invasion of mammalian cells, and the ssrA and ssrB genes of the 40-kb SPI-2 pathogenicity island, which encode a two-component system consisting of the sensor kinase (SsrA) and cognate DNA binding protein (SsrB) that regulates the expression of a type III secretion/effector protein system required for intracellular survival and replication of S. Typhimurium inside the acidified vacuolar compartment. Adaptation to the vacuole involves a complicated process of transcription regulation, and this process is modulated by DNA relaxation. Recently, DNA relaxation was shown to enhance the binding of
 Two-component signaling systems, ubiquitous in bacteria, Archaea, and plants, play crucial roles in adaptation to changing environments. Classical systems employ a sensory histidine kinase that phosphorylates a conserved aspartate (Asp) residue in a receiver (REC) domain. However, some REC domains lack this phosphorylatable Asp residue, and it remains unclear how many of these divergent REC domains exist, what their functional roles are, and how they are regulated. This study compiled all deposited REC domains missing their phosphorylatable Asp residue, named here as the Aspartate-Less Receiver (ALR) domains, and analyzed their structures and functions. ALRs are surprisingly common and are enriched for when attached to more rare effector outputs. ALRs have reorganized their active pockets to instead take on a constitutive regulatory role or accommodate input signals other than Asp phosphorylation, while largely retaining the canonical post-phosphorylation mechanisms and dimeric interface. The work defines ALRs as an atypical REC subclass and provides insights into shared mechanisms of activation between ALR and REC domains.
 The bacterial replication cycle is driven by the DnaA protein, which cycles between the active ATP-bound form and the inactive ADP-bound form. The DnaA protein is also the main controller of initiation frequency, but its accumulation does not determine the time of initiation. In a study using cells with a surplus of ATP-DnaA, no changes in the timing of initiation were observed, suggesting that the amount of ATP-DnaA is not the factor limiting precise timing of initiation. The DnaA protein interacts with various other proteins and factors, such as DiaA and DDAH, to regulate initiation. Loss of DDAH affects the cell cycle machinery only during slow growth and makes it sensitive to the concentration of DiaA protein, indicating that compromised cell cycle machines perform in a less robust manner. Overall, the results suggest that even though the DnaA protein is highly conserved as an initiator and transcription factor, the precise regulatory circuits that govern its activity may not be conserved.
 The rat demyelination (dmy) mutation is a unique model system to investigate myelin maintenance in the central nervous system (CNS) as it causes severe myelin breakdown after normal postnatal completion of myelination. The causative gene for this disorder was identified through positional cloning and found to be Mrs2, which encodes an essential component of the major Mg2+ influx system in mitochondria. The dmy mutation results in a novel splice acceptor site, leading to functional inactivation of the mutant allele. MRS2 protein is essential for Mg2+ homeostasis in CNS mitochondria, and its deficiency in dmy/dmy rats leads to major mitochondrial deficits, including elevated lactic acid concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid, reduced ATP levels, and increased numbers of mitochondria in the swollen cytoplasm of oligodendrocytes. MRS2 is dominantly expressed in neurons and is located in the inner membrane of mitochondria. Prolonged activation of microglia and elevated expression of proinflammatory cytokines were observed in dmy/dmy rats at 6-7 weeks of age, suggesting that the demyelination is enhanced by activated microglia and astroglia. The dmy mutation is a loss-of-function mutation of the Mrs2 gene, making it an excellent animal model for investigating the causal relationships between primary mitochondrial dysfunction and subsequent demyelination and for developing therapies.
 Leishmaniasis is a significant disease affecting 12 million people in 88 countries, with 2 million new cases annually. Leishmania amazonensis is a major agent in Brazil, leading to clinical forms ranging from localized to diffuse cutaneous leishmaniasis. The effect of the host immune response on Leishmania phenotype and virulence is an intriguing yet rarely analyzed issue. In this study, researchers compared the proteomes of amastigotes isolated from BALB/c and BALB/c nude mice to investigate modifications driven by the host immune response. Among the 44 differentially expressed spots, there were proteins related to oxidative/nitrosative stress and proteases, including known Leishmania virulence factors such as oligopeptidase B and tryparedoxin peroxidase. Specific isoforms of these proteins were increased in parasites from nude mice, suggesting that T cells probably restrain their posttranslational modifications in BALB/c mice. Conversely, an isoform of HSP70 was increased in amastigotes from BALB/c mice. This study may help identify potential virulence factors and ways of regulating their expression.
 This study aimed to expand the current knowledge of cryptococcosis in Thailand by examining 498 clinical, environmental, and veterinary isolates of the Cryptococcus neoformans/C. gattii species complex. The majority of the isolates were C. neoformans molecular type VNI, which was the most common molecular type among Thai human, environmental, and animal isolates. However, less frequent molecular types such as VNII, VNIV, VGI, and VGII were also identified. Among the VNI isolates, six M13 types (A, B, C, D, E, and F) were identified, with type A being the most common. MLST analysis of representative strains of each M13 type and all VNII and VNIV isolates identified eight additional sequence types. The Thai C. neoformans isolates were found to be an integral part of the global population structure, with nine STs being unique to Thailand but closely related to other global isolates. Eleven out of the 12 VGII isolates were identical to the genotype of the low virulent Vancouver Island outbreak strains, VGIIb/ST7. Overall, this study revealed a greater genetic diversity among Thai cryptococcal isolates than previously reported and identified Thailand as a stepping-stone in the global spread of the Vancouver Island outbreak strain. Cryptococcosis remains a major problem as an opportunistic infection in Thailand, making further studies on the epidemiology and virulence of the Cryptococcus neoformans/C. gattii species complex essential for proper management of the disease in the future.
 Scabies is a neglected infectious disease with a global prevalence of 100-130 million cases per year, causing significant morbidity, particularly in vulnerable populations. Current treatments, including topical agents and oral ivermectin (IVM), have limitations, such as insufficient efficacy and emerging drug resistance. Moxidectin (MOX), another macrocyclic lactone, is a promising alternative due to its better pharmacokinetic profiles. In a preclinical study using a porcine scabies model, MOX (0.3 mg/kg, single dose) was compared to IVM (0.2 mg/kg, two doses) in terms of efficacy, toxicity, and pharmacokinetics.At baseline, all groups were comparable in terms of mite counts, clinical scores, pruritus scores, and IgG antibody levels. No clinical signs of intolerance to IVM or MOX were observed during the 47-day observation period. Dexamethasone side effects were mild.MOX treatment resulted in rapid and notable acaricide efficacy of 98-100% seven days post-treatment and 100% from D14 onwards, while IVM-treated pigs had only half of the group cured on D14, and one of the four pigs was still infected at study-end. Clinical scores demonstrated significantly different recovery rates between MOX and IVM or controls. No cutaneous lesions were seen on any of the MOX-treated pigs but only on three of the four given IVM on D47. MOX-treated pigs recovered faster than IVM-treated animals. Pruritus scores declined sharply for both treated groups but more markedly for MOX-treated pigs, although pruritus persisted for several days post-treatment.The serological responses throughout infection and post-treatment were similar to those reported previously. Despite the small animal number, the analyses of primary and secondary outcomes demonstrated that all results converged to demonstrate that MOX was more effective than IVM at every study-time point. The excellent MOX efficacy could be directly reflected by its better pharmacokinetic characteristics: rapid absorption, larger distribution, and remarkably longer persistence in plasma and the skin. MOX remained detectable in plasma and the skin for the entire 47 days of observation post-administration, while IVM was undetectable 7-9 and 12 days post-administration.The study's main strengths were the robustness and trustworthiness of the experimental model, as pigs are a preferred model for investigating skin diseases in translational dermatological research due to their similar epidermal structure and immune systems to humans. The observations successfully replicated the Australian reports for scabies development, including timescale for lesion appearance, pruritus, and infection severity. The model was optimized for this therapeutic trial and standardized infections in all pigs by weighing out the inoculating samples. A new scoring system was created to clinically monitor cutaneous lesions and pruritus.The study highlighted several advantageous characteristics of MOX, including its potential to overcome IVM resistance, longer persistence in the skin, and lack of adverse events. MOX had a wider safety margin when given to Collie dogs, which are hypersensitive to P-glycoprotein substrates. MOX was well-tolerated in healthy human volunteers, and no adverse events were reported in the first phase I study. MOX did not harm eggs, but newly hatched mites may be killed by the long-lasting MOX persisting in the skin, leading to prolonged MOX efficacy. A single dose of MOX might suffice to clear infection, which could increase compliance and be a key determinant of treatment success, particularly in resource-poor communities and care facilities for the elderly, mentally-ill, or disabled patients. MOX is being developed as an alternative treatment for onchocerciasis and is being considered for regulatory authority-submission for human use. Further studies are needed to investigate the efficacy and dose selection of MOX in humans.
 The study examines the role of type III interferon (IFNλ) and its receptor IL-28R in the innate immune response to bacterial pathogens, specifically Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, in the lung. IFNλ is abundantly expressed in the respiratory tract and is essential for host defense against some viral pathogens. However, its role in bacterial infections is not well understood.The study found that both S. aureus and P. aeruginosa induced significant production of IFNλ in the lung, and clearance of these bacteria from the lung was significantly increased in IL-28R null mice compared to controls. This improvement in bacterial clearance was associated with reduced lung pathology and a lower ratio of pro- vs anti-inflammatory cytokines in the airway.In human epithelial cells, IFNλ inhibited miR-21 via STAT3, resulting in upregulation of PDCD4, a protein known to promote inflammatory signaling. In vivo, miR-21 was significantly reduced and PDCD4 was increased in the lungs of wild type compared to IL-28R null mice 18 hours following infection with either pathogen. PDCD4 null mice had improved clearance, reduced pathology, and reduced inflammatory cytokine production.These findings suggest that during bacterial pneumonia, IFNλ promotes inflammation by inhibiting miR-21 regulation of PDCD4. The study also found that SpA, a major surface component protein of S. aureus, and LPS, a component of the gram-negative bacterial cell wall, both upregulate PDCD4 expression in host cells, leading to increased inflammatory cytokine production.In summary, the study provides evidence that IFNλ plays a role in the innate immune response to bacterial pathogens in the lung by promoting inflammation through the inhibition of miR-21 regulation of PDCD4. The findings suggest that targeting the IFNλ/PDCD4 regulatory pathway could be a potential therapy for limiting lung damage in the setting of acute airway infection.
 This study builds upon previous research on neural networks with a single plastic layer employing reward modulated spike time dependent plasticity (STDP) for simple foraging tasks, and expands it by demonstrating advanced pattern discrimination and continuous learning in a network of spiking neurons with multiple plastic layers. The network utilized both reward modulated and non-reward modulated STDP and implemented multiple mechanisms for homeostatic regulation of synaptic efficacy, including heterosynaptic plasticity, gain control, output balancing, activity normalization of rewarded STDP, and hard limits on synaptic strength.The addition of a hidden layer of neurons employing non-rewarded STDP created neurons that responded to specific combinations of inputs, allowing for basic classification of the input patterns. When combined with a following layer of neurons implementing rewarded STDP, the network was able to learn discrimination between rewarding patterns and patterns designated as punishing, despite the absence of labeled training data. Synaptic noise allowed for trial-and-error learning, helping to identify goal-oriented strategies effective in task solving.The study predicts a critical set of properties of the spiking neuronal network with STDP that was sufficient to solve a complex foraging task involving pattern classification and decision making. Biologically inspired neural networks should be capable of performing sophisticated information processing, and the brain's multilayered information processing and learning capabilities are key to its power and uniqueness. The visual pathway is an example of a sensory pathway where sensory information gets progressively more general, and visual learning occurs at different stages, with different plasticity mechanisms operating at different processing steps. Eventually, sensory information reaches decision centers under the influence of reward signals, and reinforcement can be vital to visual learning. However, it is still not fully understood how learning at the cellular level gives rise to learning at the level of animal behavior.STDP is a promising model of learning at the synaptic level, and it relies on the dopamine modulation of synaptic tags created by STDP. A small number of studies have attempted to perform task learning using rewarded STDP, and the model contains two plastic layers inspired by the pathways known in mammalian brain from sensory to higher order sensory-motor areas responsible for decision making. The first layer of the model uses unsupervised learning to classify the input, while the second layer is responsible for decision making based on rewarded STDP. The network simulated the brain of an agent moving through an unknown environment, continuously learning distinct input patterns of food and adjusting synaptic weights controlling its movement according to the reward and punishment signals based on the shape of the different configurations of food particles that it acquires. The multilayered network combining rewarded and nonrewarded STDP and synaptic regulatory mechanisms is capable of solving a more complex foraging task, involving discrimination between elementary patterns of food, than it was previously reported in networks with only one plastic layer based on rewarded STDP.
 Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified numerous disease susceptibility loci for common and complex diseases, but the question remains whether individual disease risk can be quantified based on genotype data for personalized prevention and treatment. Previous studies have failed to achieve satisfactory performance, primarily due to the limited number of confirmed susceptibility loci used. In this study, the authors propose that sophisticated machine-learning approaches with a large ensemble of markers may improve disease risk assessment.They applied a Support Vector Machine (SVM) algorithm on a GWAS dataset for type 1 diabetes (T1D) and optimized a risk assessment model with hundreds of markers. The model was then tested on two independent datasets, achieving area under ROC curve (AUC) scores of approximately 0.84 in both datasets. In contrast, poor performance was achieved when limited to dozens of known susceptibility loci in the SVM model or logistic regression model.The study suggests that improved disease risk assessment can be achieved by using algorithms that take into account interactions between a large ensemble of markers. The authors are optimistic that genotype-based disease risk assessment may be feasible for diseases where a notable proportion of the risk has already been captured by SNP arrays.The authors accessed three T1D GWAS datasets: one from the Wellcome Trust Case-Control Consortium (WTCCC), one from the Genetics of Kidneys in Diabetes (GoKinD) study, and one from the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP) and Montreal. They used the SVM algorithm and logistic regression (LR) for disease risk assessment and compared their performance.The SVM algorithm achieved higher accuracy than the LR model in all three datasets, with AUC scores ranging from 0.83 to 0.85. The authors also investigated the effect of data differential biases on the performance of the models and found that SVM was less susceptible to these biases than the LR model.The authors conclude that an SVM-based risk assessment algorithm can accommodate differences in training data and generate consistent, robust results across different datasets. They also tested the model on six other disease cohorts from WTCCC and found that it had encouraging specificity values for all diseases except rheumatoid arthritis, which shares some genetic risk factors with T1D.The authors also evaluated several different forms of the risk assessment models by modifying the predictors or the model parameters to better understand the source of the improved performance of the SVM algorithm. They found that the SVM algorithm took into account both main and interaction effects, implying that both genes and their interactions contribute to T1D. They also found that better modeling of LD structure within MHC played a major role in SVM-based risk modeling.The authors envision that low-cost SNP genotyping platforms may have the potential to replace HLA-typing in assessing T1D risk in clinically relevant settings. They also note that the best assessment model and the most optimal number of predictors may depend on the distribution of effect sizes and that diseases such as T1D might represent an extreme example where genotype-based risk assessment is clinically feasible.
 Leishmaniasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by parasites of the genus Leishmania, transmitted by female phlebotomine sandflies. The disease occurs in two clinical forms: cutaneous (CL) and visceral (VL). According to the World Health Organization (WHO), approximately 2 million cases and 20,000-40,000 deaths occur annually. Brazil is one of the most affected countries, with an estimated 350 million people at risk.In this study, Bayesian geostatistical negative binomial models were applied to analyze reported incidence data of CL and VL in Brazil from 2001 to 2010. The models were fitted using integrated nested Laplace approximations (INLA) to perform fast approximate Bayesian inference and identify the most important climatic, environmental, and socioeconomic predictors.The results showed that precipitation and socioeconomic proxies were identified as important risk factors for both types of leishmaniasis. The predicted number of cases in 2010 was 30,189 (SD: 7,676) for CL and 4,889 (SD: 288) for VL. The highest predicted numbers of infected people were in the states of Minas Gerais and Pará for visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis, respectively.The spatially explicit, high-resolution incidence maps identified priority areas where leishmaniasis control efforts should be targeted to reduce disease incidence. The generated incidence maps and estimates might be useful for decision-makers to optimize resources allocation and render control and elimination efforts most cost-effective.
 IKAROS is a critical regulator of hematopoietic cell fate and its dynamic expression pattern is essential for proper hematopoiesis. IKAROS collaborates with the NuRD complex to promote gene repression and activation. The NuRD complex, initially identified as a repressive complex, also promotes transcription of specific genes through its interaction with IKAROS. IKAROS binds to the Positive-Transcription Elongation Factor b (P-TEFb) at gene promoters and assembles a complex with NuRD and P-TEFb, which can be recruited to specific genes by IKAROS. The expression level of IKAROS influences the recruitment of the NuRD-P-TEFb complex to gene regulatory regions and facilitates transcription elongation by transferring the Protein Phosphatase 1α (PP1α), an IKAROS-binding protein and P-TEFb activator, to CDK9. An IKAROS mutant that is unable to bind PP1α cannot sustain gene expression and impedes normal differentiation of IkNULL hematopoietic progenitors. The knock-down of the NuRD subunit Mi2 reveals that the occupancy of the NuRD complex at transcribed regions of genes favors the relief of POL II promoter-proximal pausing and thereby, promotes transcription elongation. IKAROS interacts with PP1 and is dephosphorylated by this phosphatase, and the IKAROS-PP1 interaction is important for Cdk9/P-TEFb activation and thus, transcription elongation of IKAROS-target genes.
 Mitochondria originated from proteobacterial endosymbionts and their transition to organelles was linked to the establishment of protein import pathways. The initial import of most proteins is mediated by the translocase of the outer membrane (TOM). Although TOM is common to all forms of mitochondria, its subunits show unexpected diversity between eukaryotic lineages. In this study, the TOM complex in hydrogenosomes, a metabolically specialized anaerobic form of mitochondria found in the excavate Trichomonas vaginalis, was analyzed. The TvTom40-2 subunit of the TOM complex in hydrogenosomes forms a translocation channel for protein import and is present in high molecular weight complexes. Two tail-anchored proteins, Tom36 and Tom46, were identified as receptors and bind hydrogenosomal preproteins. A third subunit, Tom22-like protein, lacks a trans domain but has a conserved Tom22 transmembrane segment. The fourth protein, hydrogenosomal outer membrane protein 19 (Homp19), has no known homology. Furthermore, TvTOM is associated with sorting and assembly machinery (Sam50) involved in β-barrel assembly. Visualization of TvTOM by electron microscopy revealed that it forms three pores and has an unconventional skull-like shape. Although TvTOM seems to lack Tom7, phylogenetic profiling predicted Tom7 in free-living excavates. The triplet-pore TOM complex, composed of three conserved subunits, was likely present in the last common eukaryotic ancestor (LECA), while receptors responsible for substrate binding evolved independently in different eukaryotic lineages.
 This study conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) in 19,091 female breast cancer cases and 20,606 controls of East-Asian descent, including Chinese, Korean, and Japanese women. The researchers analyzed 690,947 SNPs in Stage I, identified 5,365 SNPs for replication in Stage IIa, and further evaluated 22 top SNPs in Stage IV. The top SNP, rs9485372, located near the TGF-β activated kinase 1/MAP3K7 binding protein 2 (TAB2) gene on chromosome 6q25.1, showed a consistent association with breast cancer risk across all four stages, with a P-value of 3.8×10−12 in the combined analysis. Two other SNPs, rs9383951 and rs7107217, also showed a consistent association in each of the three replication sets. The findings suggest that genetic variants in the TAB2 gene and the ESR1 gene, as well as chromosome 11q24.3, may be related to breast cancer risk. The study provides strong evidence for a novel breast cancer susceptibility locus represented by rs9485372 and suggestsive evidence for two other loci.
 Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks are essential for understanding the function of individual proteins, protein complexes, and cellular machinery as a complex system. However, high-throughput techniques for detecting PPIs, such as yeast-2-hybrid (Y2H) and tandem affinity purification (TAP), produce large amounts of data with significant noise and incompleteness. False positive rates for Y2H and TAP are estimated to be around 64% and 77%, respectively, while false negative rates range from 43% to 71% for Y2H and 15%-50% for TAP.To address the challenge of assessing the confidence levels of interactions in PPI networks, a novel technique is presented that utilizes the best fitting network model for PPI networks, geometric graphs. This approach achieves a specificity of 85% and sensitivity of 90%. The technique is used to assign confidence scores to physical protein-protein interactions in the human PPI network downloaded from BioGRID, resulting in the prediction of 251 new interactions. The predicted interactions are statistically significant, with a fraction corresponding to protein pairs sharing common GO terms and a significant portion validated in the HPRD database and the newer release of BioGRID.The technique is based on Multi-Dimensional Scaling (MDS), which regards a larger pairwise weight between nodes as an indication of more dissimilarity. Given pairwise Euclidean distances between all pairs of elements in a set, the goal is to find locations in m-dimensional Euclidean space for these elements so that pairwise distances are preserved. The algorithm successfully embeds 19 PPI networks of various organisms into a low-dimensional space, supporting the hypothesis that PPI networks are geometric.The de-noising approach exploits the fact that high-quality PPI networks are well modeled by geometric graphs. The basic version of the de-noising procedure consists of using two different datasets: one to test the approach and the other to provide a practical application. The human PPI network from BioGRID is used to test the approach, and the largest connected component of this network is taken for analysis. The method successfully predicts new interactions in the human PPI network, with a specificity of 85% and sensitivity of 90%. The approach is stable, converging in few iterations and maintaining accuracy during iterations.The technique is compared with existing PPI network post-processing techniques in the final section. Proteins form interactions based on their biochemical properties, which can be considered dimensions of some abstract metric space. PPI networks reside in some biochemical space with a finite number of dimensions. The random geometric graph model matches PPI networks in terms of various global and local network properties, making it a versatile graph family for modeling PPI networks.
 Buruli ulcer (BU), caused by Mycobacterium ulcerans (M. ulcerans), is a progressive skin disease primarily affecting West African communities. The disease is attributed to the production of the cytotoxic macrolide mycolactone, which suppresses local and systemic immune responses and induces apoptosis in various cell types. Despite this, individuals living in endemic regions frequently develop immune responses against M. ulcerans without developing clinical disease. Interferon-γ (IFNγ), a critical regulator of host defense against intracellular pathogens, plays a crucial role in early defense against M. ulcerans infection. In an experimental mouse model, IFNγ knockout mice displayed a faster progression of the infection, with faster tissue necrosis and oedema formation, and a significantly higher bacterial burden after five weeks of infection. These findings suggest that IFNγ-dependent activation of macrophages to kill intracellular bacteria is essential for containing the infection during its early stages. Additionally, histopathological analysis revealed that IFNγ-deficient mice had more extensive tissue necrosis and oedema formation, indicating a stronger immune response against M. ulcerans in wild-type mice. Overall, these results support the hypothesis that concepts for vaccine development against tuberculosis may also be valid for BU, as both diseases involve intracellular bacterial infections and require cell-mediated immunity for effective host defense.
 The mosquito Aedes aegypti, which transmits dengue, chikungunya, and yellow fever viruses, is a significant target for vector control programs in tropical countries. Traditional surveillance methods for Ae. aegypti rely on household inspections for the presence of larvae-bearing containers. However, these methods have limitations, including cost, dependence on agent effort and householder availability, and qualitative measures of abundance. Traps are promising alternatives to larval surveys, as they transfer the searching effort to the mosquitoes and provide both qualitative and quantitative indices.A multicentric entomological survey was conducted in five mid-sized cities in Brazil to compare the entomological indices generated by four types of traps (ovitraps, MosquiTRAP, Adultrap, and BioGent-Sentinel) and the traditional larval survey. Traps were applied monthly to three 1 km2 areas per city, while larval surveys were performed simultaneously. The results showed that all investigated traps performed better than the House Index in measuring the seasonal variation in mosquito abundance and should be considered as complements or alternatives to larval surveys.The House Index was consistently low in all cities, with a median of 0, indicating that in 50% of months, not a single household was found positive. Traps rarely produced null indices, pointing to their greater sensitivity in detecting the presence of Ae. aegypti in comparison to the larval survey. The Southeast cities, NIG and DQC, presented the highest infestation levels, with similar infestation magnitudes according to OVT and BGS measurements. The traps tended to present lower infestation indices in STR, CGR, and PNM compared to DQC and NIG.Positivity and density indices produced very similar temporal patterns, with mosquito population peaking during the summer months and drastically dropping during the dry winters. Regression models identified a strong positive correlation between mosquito density and minimum or mean air temperature at lags 1 week or 2 weeks. Precipitation also showed correlation with mosquito index, but its significance varied among traps and cities.The study concluded that all investigated traps are valuable tools for dengue endemic countries and could be considered in combination with vector control strategies to improve response to dengue and other diseases transmitted by Ae. aegypti. Future studies should assess the cost-benefit of such integrated strategies and evaluate other features before choosing a trap for surveillance, such as specificity, low cost, ease of distribution, and consistent sampling profile.
 Mean-field approximations are commonly used to study large neural networks, but they do not accurately describe the behavior of networks with a small number of neurons. In this case, major differences between the mean-field approximation and the real behavior of the network can arise. However, understanding neural dynamics at the mesoscopic scale, which is intermediate between the macroscopic and microscopic levels, is crucial for unveiling the emergent properties of the brain.In this article, the authors develop a novel systematic analysis of the dynamics of arbitrarily small networks composed of homogeneous populations of excitatory and inhibitory firing-rate neurons. They study the local bifurcations of their neural activity using an approach that is largely analytically tractable and numerically determine the global bifurcations. The authors find that for strong inhibition, these networks give rise to very complex dynamics caused by the formation of multiple branching solutions of the neural dynamics equations that emerge through spontaneous symmetry-breaking. This qualitative change of the neural dynamics is a finite-size effect of the network, revealing previously unexplored differences between mesoscopic cortical circuits and their mean-field approximation.The most important consequence of spontaneous symmetry-breaking is the ability of mesoscopic networks to regulate their degree of functional heterogeneity, which is thought to help reduce the detrimental effect of noise correlations on cortical information processing. The authors extend the analysis of Beer, who studied the bifurcations of networks of arbitrary size with highly symmetric assumptions on the strength of the synaptic weights, and through asymptotic approximations of the bifurcation manifolds. The authors consider a deterministic finite-size firing-rate network model with excitatory and inhibitory populations composed of an arbitrary number of homogeneous neurons in each population and study the global bifurcations that emerge by varying the external input currents and the strength of inhibition. They find that in the strong-inhibition regime, the network undergoes branching-point bifurcations, from which multiple solutions of the neural equations emerge, enriching the complexity of the bifurcation diagram of the neural network. This dynamics is not revealed by the mean-field approximation.The authors conclude by examining the biological implications of their results and comparing their approach with previous work on homogeneous networks. They observe that the emergence of spontaneous symmetry-breaking in mesoscopic networks is a finite-size effect that reveals previously unexplored differences between mesoscopic cortical circuits and their mean-field approximation. The authors' approach provides a systematic way to study the dynamics of arbitrarily small networks, which is crucial for understanding neural dynamics at the mesoscopic scale.
 The GPT framework is a computational model for understanding morphogenesis, the process by which complex shapes arise from simple rules in growing tissues. It treats tissue as a continuous material with regional factors under genetic control that can interact and propagate. Polarity is established by signals that propagate through the tissue and is anchored in regions termed tissue polarity organizers. Rates of growth parallel or perpendicular to the local polarity are specified through a regulatory network. The resulting growth depends on how specified growth patterns interact within the constraints of mechanically connected tissue, leading to the emergence of features such as curvature. The framework was illustrated through the example of a growing Snapdragon flower and showed how combinatorial interactions between orientations and rates of growth have been exploited during evolution to generate a range of observed biological shapes. The GPT framework provides a theoretical foundation for modelling growth and allows hypotheses to be established that can be subjected to further tests. It assumes that regions in a tissue do not slide or move past each other and may be applicable to some aspects of animal development. The framework with its assumption of tissue polarity as a key component of growth specification provides an economical way of generating diverse shapes and forms.
 Ophthalmo-acromelic syndrome (OAS), also known as Waardenburg anophthalmia syndrome, is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by congenital absence of an eye (anophthalmia) and post-axial oligosyndactyly. A locus for OAS was identified on 14q24.2, and subsequent analysis revealed homozygous, predicted loss-of-function mutations in the SMOC1 gene in eight unrelated families. SMOC1 encodes a protein that functions as a BMP antagonist during early embryonic development. The phenotype associated with homozygosity for a targeted pre-conditional gene-trap mouse mutation of Smoc1 also shows significant overlap with the human disease. SMOC-1 and SMOC-2 are the two vertebrate paralogs of the Drosophila protein Pentagone, which has recently been shown to function as an antagonist of Decapentaplegic (Dpp) signaling in vivo. The loss of SMOC-1 function is proposed to cause OAS by altering the BMP gradient within the limb bud and thus altering anteroposterior expansion.
 The Drosophila genes spalt major (salm) and spalt-related (salr) play crucial roles in the wing imaginal disc by regulating cell survival, proliferation, and vein patterning in the central and lateral regions. To identify Salm and Salr target genes, microarray experiments were conducted comparing the expression profiles of salm/salr knockdown wing discs with control discs. The results revealed a complex transcription landscape, with both positively and negatively regulated genes. Among the identified genes, some require wing growth and patterning, while others have unknown functions. The identification of these target genes provides new insights into the genetic control of wing development by the Dpp pathway.In the wing imaginal disc, salm and salr are expressed in a broad stripe of cells in the wing pouch, which corresponds to the adult wing's vein L2 and extending to the L4/L5 intervein. Their expression is directly regulated by Dpp signalling. To identify Salm/Salr target genes (STG), microarray experiments were performed using the salEPv-Gal4 driver, which reproduces the domain of salm/salr expression in the wing blade region of the imaginal disc. The expression of Salm and Salr was reduced using RNA interference, and the time since the temperature shift from 25°C to 29°C was precisely determined using the temperature-sensitive Gal80 protein.After 24 hours at 29°C, Salm expression was already undetected in the wing blade, while GFP expression was strong in the central domain of the wing. However, discs at 48 hours showed a more severe phenotype, with a loss in FasIII expression and a reduction in the size of the salEPv-Gal4 expression domain. In contrast, control discs showed no difference in expression profiles between 24 and 48 hours at 29°C.The microarray analysis identified 71 genes whose expression changed between discs at T48 and T24, most of which had increased expression at T48. Comparing salm-i/salr-i and control discs at T24 and T48, 686 genes showed significant changes, of which 98 had a fold-change higher than 2. The number of changes was much higher at T48, where 1488 genes were identified, including 168 with a fold-change higher than 2. Most of the genes whose expression level changed at T24 were also detected at T48 hours, with a good correlation between the extent of change observed in the T24 and T48 classes.The lists of genes showed a low overlap with other transcriptomic and genomic analyses carried out in the wing disc. From the total of genes that showed a significant change comparing salm-i/salr-i and control discs at T24 and T48, 124 genes were selected that changed with a logFC of at least 1, and 67 genes were chosen that changed only at T24 or T48. A total of 95 genes were added from experiment 2, which over-expressed sal, along with the best scores. The joint list of STG included 139 genes whose expression increases in salm/salr loss of function (STG+) and 147 whose expression levels decreases in salm/salr loss of function conditions (STG-).The functional significance of the identified genes was investigated using the software DAVID, with the GO term "biological process." For genes whose RNA expression levels change with an adjusted p-value lower than 0.05 at 24 hours after salm/salr RNAi induction, a limited enrichment of GO terms related to the known functions of Sal was found. However, the STG genes with reduced expression in salm/salr knockdown were enriched for the terms "regulation of cell proliferation," "tissue development," "cell morphogenesis," "regulation of signal transduction," and "regulation of biosynthetic process." The STG genes with augmented expression in salm/salr knockdown conditions were only enriched in the descriptions "regulation of gene expression" and "anatomical structure homeostasis."The expression patterns of 100 of the 139 STG+ genes were analyzed in wild type and salm-i/salr-i backgrounds. Most of the analyzed genes displayed a generalized pattern of expression in third instar wing disc or their expression was not detected
 The study reported in this paper investigates how the neural response of the AN2 neuron in crickets adapts to changes in auditory environments, specifically in response to bimodal and trimodal sound stimuli. The infomax and selective coding hypotheses were tested to understand how the neural response curve optimally changes in response to different stimuli. The results showed that adaptation led to a decrease in neural responses to 0 dB peak signals with time, and the response curve shifted to higher stimulus intensities while the slope changed only slightly. The Bayesian parameter estimation revealed that the response curve parameter B50 significantly increased for the trimodal stimulus distribution. However, the increase in slope was not significant. The study also found that adaptation reduced the amount of encoded information about the stimulus when considering the whole range of input signals, which is in contrast to other studies reporting that stimulus encoding is compatible with infomax. The results suggest that instead of improving sensory coding, adaptation in the AN2 decreases information transmission and leaves higher processing centers in the cricket brain with less information, regardless of what part of the stimulus is considered. The adaptation seems to selectively decrease mutual information for low-intensity sounds by shifting the stimulus-response curves towards higher stimulus intensities, reducing spike counts for low-intensity signals. The findings could be the result of a trade-off between setting the operating regime for the bursting mode and suppressing background noise on slower time scales. The study proposes a general paradigm that allows quantifying the improvement in neural coding without requiring that neural response curves achieve optimality, and testing various hypotheses on different stimulus ensembles will yield important insights on what is or what is not the relevant part of a sensory environment for a given sensory unit.
 In this study, the authors investigated the role of RpoS, a master regulator of the general stress response in bacteria, during the tick-phase of Borrelia burgdorferi's enzootic cycle. They demonstrated that RpoS-dependent gene expression is essential for the transmission of spirochetes by feeding nymphs. RpoS-deficient organisms were confined to the midgut lumen and transformed into unusual round bodies during the later stages of the blood meal. The round body formation was rapidly reversible, and in vitro, it appeared to be attributable to reduced levels of Coenzyme A disulfide reductase, which among other functions, provides NAD+ for glycolysis. The findings suggest that spirochetes default to an RpoS-independent program for round body formation upon sensing that the energetics for transmission are unfavorable. The authors also identified several potential surface adhesins within the RpoS regulon that may function during tick-to-mammal transmission. Overall, the study provides new insights into the role of RpoS in the physiological adaptations required for tick-to-mammal transmission and the existence of a proposed default survival mode (round body formation) triggered when spirochetes are unable to produce sufficient energy for dissemination within the nymph.
 Two-cysteine peroxiredoxins (mTXNPx) are essential for the long-term survival of Leishmania infantum amastigotes in the mammalian host, but their peroxidase activity is not required for this function. Instead, mTXNPx may function as a molecular chaperone, as shown by its ability to suppress the thermal aggregation of citrate synthase in vitro and its role in conferring thermotolerance to L. infantum. The findings challenge the current understanding of the role of peroxiredoxins in trypanosomatids and suggest that these enzymes can have functions beyond peroxide elimination. The study also provides a basis for the development of new strategies to control leishmaniasis using a live attenuated vaccine based on the mtxnpx− parasite line.
 Microbial metabolism of plant polysaccharides is a crucial aspect of environmental carbon cycling, human nutrition, and industrial processes based on cellulosic bioconversion. In this study, researchers demonstrated a method to analyze how microbes, specifically the bacterium Clostridium phytofermentans, catabolize various plant polysaccharides, including glucans, mannans, xylans, galactans, pectins, and arabinans. The researchers applied this method to investigate C. phytofermentans' response to these polysaccharides by up-regulating specific groups of CAZymes, transporters, and enzymes to metabolize the constituent sugars.The researchers found that C. phytofermentans ferments plant polysaccharides with varying efficiencies and prioritizes metabolism of preferred substrates. Strand-specific RNA-seq revealed that this bacterium responds to polysaccharides by up-regulating specific CAZymes, transporters, and enzymes. Fifty-six up-regulated CAZymes were purified and their activities showed that most polysaccharides are degraded by multiple enzymes, often from the same family, but with divergent rates, specificities, and cellular localizations. CAZymes were then tested in combination to identify synergies between enzymes acting on the same substrate with different catalytic mechanisms.The results of this study advance our understanding of how microbes degrade and metabolize plant biomass, which is essential for understanding carbon flow in the environment, promoting healthy human nutrition and preventing disease, and developing industrial processes based on cellulosic bioconversion. C. phytofermentans was found to ferment a wide range of plant polysaccharides and their constituent monosaccharides, but with varying cell yields and growth rates. The researchers also identified synergies between different CAZymes acting on the same substrate, which could lead to more efficient degradation of plant biomass.
 Glanders, a zoonotic disease caused by the gram-negative bacterium Burkholderia mallei, is a highly infectious and fatal disease for both animals and humans. Eradicated in many Western countries, glanders has recently resurfaced in Asia, the Middle-East, Africa, and South America. In 2010-'11, Bahrain experienced an outbreak of glanders, with horses and a camel testing positive. To investigate the outbreak, high-resolution genotyping using multiple locus variable number of tandem repeats (MLVA) and comparative whole genome sequencing were applied to B. mallei isolated from infected horses and the positive camel.The results revealed that the samples from the Bahrainian outbreak separated into two distinct clusters, suggesting the involvement of multiple B. mallei strains. Furthermore, the samples from Bahrain were more closely related to B. mallei isolated from horses in the United Arab Emirates in 2004 than other B. mallei, indicating repeated importation to the region from similar geographic sources. The close relationship of the Dubai/UAE B. mallei populations to each other may be indicative of a similar geographic origin that has yet to be identified.The recent emergence of glanders and worldwide horse trading pose a new risk for human infections. All animals imported from known or potentially endemic regions should be routinely tested for glanders prior to importation, and repeated testing during quarantine is recommended. The failure of initial eradication efforts in 2010 highlights the need for continued surveillance and abatement measures.
 The Brachypodium distachyon (Brachypodium) TAR2-LIKE (BdTAR2L) gene plays a crucial role in root development by regulating auxin biosynthesis through tryptophan aminotransferase activity. In Arabidopsis thaliana (Arabidopsis), auxin biosynthesis via indole-3-pyruvic acid (IPA) requires redundant TAA1 and TAR genes, and their loss leads to impaired root growth. However, in Brachypodium, a loss-of-function mutation in the BdTAR2L gene results in dramatically elongated seminal roots due to enhanced cell elongation and increased auxin levels. This contrasts with the gradual reduction in root growth and auxin levels observed in Arabidopsis taa1/tar mutants.The Bdtar2lhypo mutant, which contains a T-DNA insertion in the BdTAR2L gene, displays increased cell elongation and cellular anisotropy in the root, as evidenced by longer and thinner mature root cells and shorter root hairs. Another mutant allele, Bdtar2lqnull, which has a T-DNA insertion in the second intron of the BdTAR2L gene, also displays increased cell elongation and cellular anisotropy, but the root growth is not sustained, and the mutants display more severe shoot phenotypes.Interestingly, Brachypodium roots respond differently to TAA1/TAR inhibitors than Arabidopsis roots. While Arabidopsis wild type plants and taa1 mutants are hypersensitive to L-kynerunine, a specific TAA1/TAR inhibitor, Brachypodium roots display elevated auxin levels upon L-kynerunine treatment. This is due to increased expression of YUCCA genes, which are rate-limiting for conversion of IPA to auxin.The ethylene pathway appears to repress auxin biosynthesis via the IPA pathway in Brachypodium by down-regulating BdYUCCA expression. This is in contrast to Arabidopsis, where ethylene promotes auxin biosynthesis through transcriptional regulation of TAA1/TAR and YUCCA genes.In summary, the Brachypodium TAR2-LIKE gene plays a critical role in root development by regulating auxin biosynthesis through tryptophan aminotransferase activity. The loss of function in this gene results in increased cell elongation and cellular anisotropy, which is accompanied by elevated auxin levels. The regulation of auxin biosynthesis through the ethylene pathway in Brachypodium appears to differ from that in Arabidopsis, with ethylene repressing rather than promoting auxin biosynthesis via the IPA pathway.
 The organization of chromosomes inside the cell nucleus plays a crucial role in regulating gene expression. Chromosomes are long, densely packed polymers that exhibit distinct universal properties due to their confinement within the nucleus. Understanding the mechanisms behind chromosome folding is essential to decipher the relationship between chromatin structure and gene expression. Chromosomes are organized hierarchically, with each chromosome occupying its own territory and genes sharing the same transcriptional state tending to colocalize. Chromosomes are modeled as self-avoiding polymers, and the entanglement length, which measures the typical subchain size above which topological confinement influences configurational fluctuations, is a critical parameter.To investigate the folding and dynamics of chromosomes, researchers use coarse-grained models that simplify the underlying fine-scale model while preserving its essential features. However, neglecting topological constraints in these models may lead to incorrect interpretations of the results. In this study, the authors propose a coarse-graining strategy for self-avoiding polymers on a lattice that conserves the entanglement regime and the volumic density, allowing for efficient simulations while maintaining the accuracy of the underlying fine-scale model. They apply this strategy to investigate the role of epigenomic-driven interactions in the folding and dynamics of a large fraction of chromosome 3R in drosophila. Their findings suggest that chromatin is very dynamic during the cell cycle and that epigenomics is a primary driver of chromosome folding in drosophila. The model predictions are in excellent agreement with Hi-C data, and the strength of interaction compatible with the data is weak. The authors also detect several discrepancies between the predicted and experimental contact maps, which could be due to a wrong annotation of the local epigenetic content or the existence of specific interactions driven by other biological processes not accounted for in the model. Future work includes investigating the role of other types of interactions, like those associated with the nuclear membrane, and the crosstalk with epigenomic-driven interactions.
 Toxoplasma gondii, an intracellular parasite, replicates in mammalian cells within a parasitophorous vacuole (PV) that does not fuse with any host organelles. To acquire nutrients, Toxoplasma exploits host organelles, including lipid droplets (LD). In this study, the authors investigated the interaction between Toxoplasma and host LD, focusing on the exploitation of host LD for nutrient acquisition.The authors found that Toxoplasma replication is reduced in host cells depleted of LD or impaired in TAG lipolysis or fatty acid catabolism. In infected cells, the number of host LD and the expression of host LD-associated genes (ADRP, DGAT2) progressively increase until the onset of parasite replication. Throughout infection, PV are surrounded by host LD. Toxoplasma is capable of accessing lipids stored in host LD and incorporating these lipids into its own membranes and LD. Exogenous addition of oleic acid stimulates LD biogenesis in the host cell and results in the overaccumulation of neutral lipids in very large LD inside the parasite.To access LD-derived lipids, Toxoplasma intercepts and internalizes within the PV host LD, some of which remain associated with Rab7, which become wrapped by an intravacuolar network of membranes (IVN). Mutant parasites impaired in IVN formation display diminished capacity of lipid uptake from host LD. Moreover, parasites lacking an IVN-localized phospholipase A2 are less proficient in salvaging lipids from host LD in the PV, suggesting a major contribution of the IVN for host LD processing in the PV and, thus, lipid content release.Interestingly, gavage of parasites with lipids reveals, for the first time, the presence in Toxoplasma of endocytic-like structures containing lipidic material originating from the PV lumen. This study highlights the reliance of Toxoplasma on host LD for its intracellular development and the parasite’s capability in scavenging neutral lipids from host LD.
 The BMP signaling pathway plays a crucial role in dorsal-ventral axis patterning during embryonic development, and the Drosophila embryo serves as a model to decipher the BMP-responsive transcriptional network underlying differentiation of the dorsal ectoderm. In this study, RNA-seq and ChIP-seq data were combined to identify Dpp signaling responsive genes and enhancers. The results revealed that EGF signaling negatively regulates embryonic BMP-responsive transcription, establishing a balance between BMP and EGF signaling. Key roles for Zelda and Zerknüllt transcription factors in Dpp gradient interpretation were also identified, along with widespread binding of insulator proteins to Mad and Brinker-bound genomic regions. The findings were integrated into a model for Mad-dependent activation and discussed in the context of BMP signal interpretation in vertebrates.Using RNA-seq, Dpp signaling responsive genes were identified by comparing TkvQD expressing embryos to control embryos. The analysis revealed that 331 genes, including 12 out of 14 previously identified Dpp target genes, showed altered expression patterns. Validation of a subset of positively regulated Dpp target genes revealed various expression patterns in the dorsal ectoderm, with some genes showing amnioserosa-specific expression in later stage embryos.ChIP-seq data for pMad and Brinker revealed that both factors occupy similar locations at 3-3.5 hours after egg laying (AEL) as 2-2.5 hours AEL, with additional binding to other enhancers at the later time point. Approximately 70% of the 65 Dpp target genes confirmed to be upregulated in the early embryo had a ChIP peak within 40kb. Integration of the RNA-seq and ChIP-seq data sets revealed that ~30% of ChIP peaks had a differentially expressed gene within 40kb, with genes potentially regulated by multiple enhancers.The EGF pathway was found to be regulated by Dpp signaling, with rho and vein being activated by Dpp signaling, enabling dorsal MAPK pathway activation. The activated dpERK promotes pMad degradation in the early embryo, establishing a nuclear pMad level that activates Dpp target genes, including egr, with Egr then functioning via positive feedback to promote refinement of the pMad stripe at the dorsal midline. Embryos mutant for kek1, encoding an inhibitor of the EGF receptor, have a narrower domain of dpERK activation, which alters the pMad-dpERK equilibrium, leading to reduced pMad levels and disrupted Dpp target gene expression. Conversely, egfr or rho mutant embryos have a loss/reduction in dpERK, leading to expanded Race expression.Insulator proteins, including BEAF-32, ZIPIC, Chromator, and PITA, were found to bind to many of the pMad/Brk ChIP enhancers, including those for Race, ana, egr, ush, Ama, and pnr. This binding may promote enhancer-promoter loops and gene activation through the release of paused Pol II. The findings suggest that insulator proteins facilitate Mad-dependent activation of some target genes.
 In this study, the systemic alterations of mitochondrial protein expressions were investigated under dysfunctional mt states using a data-integrative network analysis. Through network clustering analysis, it was discovered that cells respond to pathological conditions by modulating the coordinated expression/transport of mt proteins. Up-regulated and down-regulated proteins of dysfunctional mt states were organized into two predominant subnetworks that exhibited distinct biological processes. Functional modules controlling mt protein translation, folding, proteolysis, and mtDNA repair were up-regulated in the dysfunctional ρ0 state. These processes may require retrograde regulation to properly respond to changes in cellular states. Up-regulated functional modules act as cross-talk components connecting mitochondria with other organelles to sense and propagate the retrograde signal upon mtDNA depletion stress to facilitate mitochondrial survival. The proteins of up-regulated functional modules tended to have multiple annotations of subcellular localization and to be involved in processes occurring inside and outside of mitochondria. For example, AP-endonuclease 1 (APEX1) of the DNA repair module is known to shuttle from mitochondria to the nucleus in response to oxidative stress, and Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K (HNRPK) of the ribonucleoprotein complex associated with mtDNA transcription has been detected in the nucleus, cytoplasm, and mitochondria. These observations suggest that up-regulated functional modules act as cross-talk components connecting mitochondria with other organelles to sense and propagate the retrograde signal upon mtDNA depletion stress to facilitate mitochondrial survival. The expression of up- and down-regulated proteins was controlled in several different levels. From the comparisons between protein and mRNA abundance under the dysfunctional ρ0 state, it was found that most up- and down-regulated mt proteins had increased mRNA expression levels, indicating that up-regulated proteins were successfully recruited into ρ0 mitochondria. It has been proposed that there is a compensatory mt protein import pathway independent from the dissipated membrane potential, which facilitates the translocations of proteins involved in mt protein folding and mtDNA repair to the mitochondria. This pathway implies that "emergency" proteins are increasingly imported to dysfunctional ρ0 mitochondria to repair pathophysiological mt conditions. The cross-talk properties of up-regulated functional modules support this idea. Overall, the study provides valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms of mitochondrial dysfunction and the role of retrograde signaling in mitochondrial survival.
 The dissociation mechanism of the thioredoxin (Trx) mixed disulfide complexes with arsenate reductase (ArsC) has been a subject of debate for over twenty years. The activation of the nucleophilic cysteine as a thiolate during the dissociation of the complex is unknown. Using the complex between Trx and its endogenous substrate, ArsC, as a model, researchers observed that conformational changes around the intermediate disulfide bring Cys32Trx in contact with Cys29Trx. Cys32Trx is activated for its nucleophilic attack by hydrogen bonds and is found to be more reactive than Cys82ArsC. Additionally, Cys32Trx directs its nucleophilic attack on the more susceptible Cys29Trx and not on Cys89ArsC. This multidisciplinary approach provides new insights into the universal thiol/disulfide exchange reaction mechanism that results in reduced substrate and oxidized Trx.The thioredoxin (Trx) is a powerful and universal protein disulfide bond oxido-reductase with a very low redox potential. It has a similar three-dimensional fold comprising a central core of four β-strands surrounded by three α-helices, and all feature a conserved active-site loop containing two redox-active cysteine residues. The active site is at the end of an alpha helix, extending from Lys33 to Glu45, and the pKa of the N-terminal active-site cysteine is significantly lower than the pKa of a cysteine in the absence of a structured protein environment, enabling it to act as a nucleophile. Well-documented endogenous substrates of Trx include the arsenate reductases (ArsC) from the thioredoxin-coupled ArsC family.ArsC catalyzes the reduction of arsenate to arsenite and is a key enzyme involved in arsenic detoxification. It combines a phosphatase-like nucleophilic displacement reaction in the active site with a distinct intra-molecular disulfide-bond cascade. Three redox active cysteines are involved: Cys10, Cys82, and Cys89. After a single catalytic arsenate reduction event, oxidized ArsC exposes a disulfide between Cys82 and Cys89 on a looped-out redox helix. Thioredoxin converts oxidized ArsC back to its initial reduced state by nucleophilically attacking Cys89ArsC of the Cys82ArsC-Cys89ArsC disulfide, leading to the formation of the Trx-ArsC mixed disulfide intermediate complex between Cys29Trx and Cys89ArsC. In this complex, Cys32Trx performs a nucleophilic attack on Cys29Trx of the Cys29Trx-Cys89ArsC disulfide.The mechanism behind the experimentally observed regioselectivity (attack on Cys89ArsC instead of on Cys82ArsC during complex formation and on Cys29Trx instead of on Cys89ArsC during complex dissociation) is not known. Experimentally, it has been observed that Cys32Trx had performed a nucleophilic attack on Cys29Trx, but why and how this can occur was not known. A priori, there is another possibility: a nucleophilic attack by Cys82Trx leading to an unproductive cycle. The regioselectivity analysis gives explanatory insights into the observed mechanism, which could not be understood on the basis of prior information including the experimental structure of the Trx-ArsC complex. This regioselectivity is critical for the function of the involved proteins and is a recurring question within thiol-oxidoreductases.To study Trx mixed disulfide complex formation and dissociation, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, pKa calculations, reactivity analysis with conceptual density functional theory (DFT), and biochemical complex formation experiments with Cys-mutants were applied. These various elements were combined to propose a new and consistent view of the mechanisms, firmly grounded in structural information. The computational approach is well suited here because it allows the direct investigation
 Leprosy, a chronic infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae and M. lepromatosis, affects primarily the skin and peripheral nervous system. The immune response to leprosy varies from paucibacillary tuberculoid to multibacillary lepromatous disease, depending on the quality of the immune response, which is influenced by genetic variants and environmental factors. Complement receptor 1 (CR1) plays a role in the entrance of mycobacteria into macrophages by binding C3b/C4b complement fragments deposited on opsonized bacteria. In a case-control study, CR1 polymorphisms, gene expression, and soluble CR1 levels were investigated in Brazilian leprosy patients to understand the role of this receptor in susceptibility to the disease.Nine SNPs were genotyped in 213 leprosy patients and 297 controls, and mRNA levels and sCR1 levels were measured in up to 80 samples. Individuals with the most common recombinant haplotype, harboring rs3849266*T in intron 21 and rs3737002*T in exon 26, presented twice higher susceptibility to leprosy (OR = 2.43, p = 0.017). Paucibacillary patients with these variants presented lower sCR1 levels, reducing the anti-inflammatory response (p = 0.040 and p = 0.046, respectively). The most ancient haplotype increased susceptibility to the multibacillary clinical form (OR = 3.04, p = 0.01) and presented the intronic rs12034383*G allele, which was associated with higher gene expression (p = 0.043). Furthermore, there was an inverse correlation between the levels of sCR1 and mannose-binding lectin (MBL) (R = -0.52, p = 0.007).The results suggest a regulatory role for CR1 polymorphisms on mRNA and sCR1 levels, with haplotype-specific effects increasing susceptibility to leprosy by enhancing parasite phagocytosis and inflammation. Functional investigations on phagocytic efficiency of the associated haplotypes would help clarify the role of this receptor in the disease and possibly lead to novel therapeutic strategies.Leprosy is a neglected tropical disease that primarily affects individuals in India, Brazil, Indonesia, Bangladesh, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Nepal, and Nigeria. In Brazil, the state with the highest prevalence is Mato Grosso (9.03 cases/10,000 inhabitants). Leprosy is caused by Mycobacterium leprae and M. lepromatosis and primarily affects the skin and peripheral nervous system, later reaching other organs and systems. The clinical diversity of leprosy relies on the quality of the immune response, which itself results from genetic variants of the host and environmental factors. Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) have identified polymorphisms in interleukin 23 receptor (IL23R), nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain containing 2 (NOD2), and human leukocyte antigens–antigen D related (HLA-DR) genes as associated with susceptibility to the disease. Polymorphisms of genes associated with Parkinson (Parkin–PARK2, parkin coregulated–PACRG, and superoxide dismutase 2 –SOD2) and Alzheimer diseases (SOD2) also modulate susceptibility to leprosy in independent populations.The complement system includes 47 proteins and protein fragments that activate, coordinate, and regulate a proinflammatory, proteolytic cascade of the immune response. Altered expression and functional deficiency of complement components modulate susceptibility to diseases. Genetic variants that reduce complement activation or complement-mediated recognition of opsonized elements may enhance resistance against pathogens that depend on phagocytosis to initiate infection, as mycobacteria. They may also decrease inflammation at skin and nerve injuries. Several polymorphisms of genes of the complement system are associated with leprosy: mannose-binding lectin (MBL2), ficolins (FCN1, FCN2, and FC
 Metagenomic sequencing using next-generation technology holds great promise for human infection diagnosis by capturing all DNA or RNA from pathogenic organisms in a sample. However, complete and accurate characterization of sequences depends on the availability and quality of genomes for comparison. Thousands of genomes are now available, but contamination in published genomes poses a challenge, increasing the risk of falsely identifying the wrong pathogen. To address this issue, a bioinformatics system was developed to eliminate contamination and low-complexity genomic sequences in draft genomes of eukaryotic pathogens.The system uses a pipeline that splits each genome into 100bp overlapping pseudo-reads, which are then compared to three unique databases using Kraken and Bowtie2. Kraken labels reads with exact 31-mer matches to any sequence in the database, while Bowtie2 aligns reads against any reference sequence with gaps or mismatches. Any pseudo-read classified or aligned in these steps represents either contaminating sequences or low-complexity sequences that match distant species by chance. These sequences could lead to false positive identifications in metagenomics analysis. Therefore, any portion of a database genome that corresponds to a pseudo-read classified or aligned in the previous steps is masked.To evaluate the effectiveness of the database cleaning method for NGS diagnosis of human infections, a set of 20 human cornea samples was tested against the EuPathDB-clean database. The results showed that the original EuPathDB and RefSeq EuPathDB databases yielded false positive signals due to contamination, while the Microbe database, which includes EuPathDB-clean, produced accurate results. The new database significantly improved the sensitivity for identifying true positive eukaryotic infections while offering a dramatic reduction in false positives.In conclusion, metagenomic sequencing using next-generation technology holds great potential for human infection diagnosis. However, the accuracy of the results heavily relies on the quality and completeness of reference databases. Contamination in published genomes poses a significant challenge, but a comprehensive contamination removal process can create a much cleaner database that minimizes false positives and provides better identification of true positive pathogens in NGS diagnostic samples.
 The Stockholm Atherosclerosis Gene Expression (STAGE) study aimed to identify functionally associated genes important for coronary artery disease (CAD) using whole-genome expression profiles from multiple organs. The study used a two-way clustering approach to analyze gene expression data from five CAD-relevant tissues, including liver, skeletal muscle, visceral fat, atherosclerotic arterial wall, and internal mammary artery (IMA). The analysis revealed a module of 128 genes, called the A-module, which was enriched with genetic risk for CAD and involved the TEML pathway. Parts of the A-module were active in both atherosclerotic arterial wall and visceral fat, suggesting a local source of inflammation contributing to coronary atherosclerosis. The study also identified LDB2 as a putative high-hierarchy regulator of the A-module, which was robustly expressed in all major lesion cell types both in lesion-free and in late atherosclerosis lesions. Key genes in the TEML pathway were differentially regulated in the arterial wall of Ldb2-deficient mice, further supporting the importance of the A-module in atherosclerosis development. The findings suggest that the A-module, including LDB2, is important in the regulation of TEML and in atherosclerosis development. The STAGE study used a top-down systems biological approach to identify gene networks or groups of functionally associated genes (modules) of importance for disease severity. The study identified 60 tissue clusters, two of which related to the extent of coronary atherosclerosis. Although this might appear to be a small fraction, these clusters may relate to tissue physiology or subtraits of CABG patients. The study also used two different atherosclerosis cohorts for exploration and confirmation, adding credibility to the confirmatory step and ruling out the possibility that any of the tissue clusters identified in the STAGE cohort was a result of the exploratory study design. The extents of coronary and carotid atherosclerosis have repeatedly been shown to be highly correlated, and atherosclerosis development and the principal molecular processes underlying this development have been found to be very similar in all major arteries, regardless of location. The study also identified LDB2 as a potential regulator of TEML genes in general and specifically as a regulator of A-module genes. The findings suggest that the A-module, including LDB2, is important in the regulation of TEML and in atherosclerosis development. The clinical usefulness and exact role in CAD of this module and its high-hierarchy regulator LDB2 merit further investigation.
 In the present work, the authors investigated the impact of previous stimuli and decisions on human visual perception using multilevel modeling and cross-validation approaches. They revealed that each perceptual report is influenced by opposite biases from a hierarchy of serially dependent processes: low-level adaptation repels perception away from previous stimuli, while decisional traces attract perceptual reports toward the recent past. The authors propose a unified account of serial dependence, where functionally distinct mechanisms promote the differentiation and integration of visual information over time.The authors conducted a series of experiments to investigate the impact of previous stimuli and decisions on behavioral reports during adjustment and forced-choice tasks. Their results showed that past decisions attract perceptual reports toward the recent past, while stimulus-driven serial dependence disappears when participants are instructed to withhold their response. After streaks of nonreported orientations, positive serial dependence was still dictated by the most recent perceptual decision, demonstrating the dependency on previous decisions rather than physical stimuli.The authors propose a hierarchical model of short-term dependencies, where repulsive biases emerge as a result of low-level adaptation and positive serial dependence arises from the reverberation of internal templates reflecting the reading-out of sensory signals from higher-level decision integrators. They suggest that rapid negative aftereffects in response to task-irrelevant stimuli promote exquisite perceptual sensitivity to relevant environmental changes, while decisional traces reflect the reinstatement of the most informative sensory channels in the recent past, increasing the efficiency of decisional templates over the long term.
 This study examines the convergent evolution of swimming patterns in a diverse group of aquatic animals, specifically those that use median/paired fins. The researchers found that the optimal specific wavelength (OSW) for swimming with elongated fins is around twenty times the mean amplitude, regardless of the animal's size or phylum. This OSW maximizes the force generated by the body, leading to increased swimming speed. The researchers hypothesize that this optimality arises due to the friction and velocity mechanisms of fin surface interaction with the water. The findings challenge the idea that the laws of physics limit the number of good solutions in evolution and suggest that convergent evolution may be driven by a combination of physical principles and developmental constraints. The study also discusses the implications of these findings for controlling robots with undulating fins.
 Human papillomaviruses (HPVs) are DNA viruses associated with major human cancers, and there is a strong interest in developing new means to prevent HPV infections. HPVs infect stratified epithelia, and their life cycle is closely linked to the differentiation state of the epithelium they infect. Progeny virus is only made in the terminally differentiating suprabasal compartment. HPVs must first establish their infection within the basal layer of stratified epithelium, but why this is necessary has not been well understood.Recent studies using chemical biology approaches have revealed that cell cycle progression through mitosis is critical for HPV infection. Specifically, cells must pass through early prophase for successful onset of transcription of the HPV encapsidated genes. This finding provides one reason why HPVs initially establish infections in the basal compartment of stratified epithelia. Only this compartment of the epithelium contains cells progressing through the cell cycle, and therefore it is only in these cells that HPVs can establish their infection.These findings have important implications for HPV control. By defining a major condition for cell susceptibility to HPV infection, these results provide new leads for developing preventive and therapeutic strategies against HPV infection. For example, cell cycle inhibitors such as etoposide and aphidicolin have been identified as effective inhibitors of HPV infection in vitro. Further studies are needed to determine if these drugs can be used to prevent HPV infection in vivo.In summary, HPVs are pathogens that selectively infect undifferentiated basal cells of stratified epithelia. Recent studies have revealed that cell cycle progression through mitosis, and specifically events in early prophase, is critical for establishing HPV infection. These findings provide new insights into the mechanism by which HPV infects cells and have important implications for HPV control.
 Orofacial clefting, which includes cleft lip and palate, is a common birth defect with both genetic and environmental components. The genetic etiology of this condition is incompletely understood, but recent studies have identified mutations in the HYAL2 gene as a cause of syndromic orofacial clefting. HYAL2 encodes hyaluronidase 2, which degrades extracellular hyaluronan, a critical component of the developing heart and palatal shelf matrix. Mutations in the HYAL2 gene result in a destabilized molecule and reduced protein levels, leading to craniofacial abnormalities, including submucosal cleft palate, cor triatriatum sinister, and hearing loss in humans and mice. These findings demonstrate the importance of hyaluronan turnover for normal human and mouse development.
 The developing human brain is susceptible to hypoxic injury, leading to chronic neurodevelopmental impairments. Recent studies in zebrafish have revealed that hypoxia disrupts axon pathfinding in the developing central nervous system (CNS), specifically in the formation of the tract of the commissure of the posterior tuberculum (TCPT). This disruption is due to the activation of the hypoxia-inducible transcription factor (hif1) pathway and the subsequent upregulation of ephrinB2a. The ephrinB2a receptor, ephA4a, is expressed in a pattern complementary to the misrouting axons. By targeting a constitutively active form of ephrinB2a to specific neurons, it was found that ephrinB2a mediates the pathfinding errors via a reverse-signaling mechanism. Magnesium sulfate, which is used to improve neurodevelopmental outcomes in preterm births, protects against pathfinding errors by preventing upregulation of ephrinB2a. These findings suggest that evolutionarily conserved genetic pathways regulate connectivity changes in the CNS in response to hypoxia, and support a potential neuroprotective role for magnesium.
 Filarial nematodes, such as Wuchereria bancrofti and Brugia malayi, form a mutualistic relationship with the endosymbiont Wolbachia. Depletion of Wolbachia leads to profound defects in nematode development, fertility, and viability, making it a promising approach for treating filarial diseases. However, the basis for this mutualistic relationship is not well understood. In this study, whole mount confocal microscopy was used to observe the consequences of Wolbachia depletion on host nematode cellular and nuclear structure. The results reveal an extensive and profound development of apoptosis in germline cells and embryos following antibiotic depletion of Wolbachia. Apoptosis occurs soon after bacterial depletion in B. malayi and is sustained for at least 21 months in O. volvulus. Apoptosis is even observed in cells that had not been infected with Wolbachia prior to antibiotic treatment. Nuclear structure in most somatic tissues remains intact, but disruption of cytoskeleton arrangement occurs in the lateral chord cells, where the vast majority of the bacteria reside. The Wolbachia present in the female lateral chords may therefore have a more important role than in males, and their contribution may be crucial to avoid apoptosis during female germline and embryonic development. The loss of Wolbachia in somatic tissues does not lead to apoptosis of the lateral chord cells, but the cortical microtubule network is disrupted in treated females, which may impair the chords' function in supplying nutrients/metabolites to the germline and developing embryos. In vitro doxycycline treatment confirmed that the in vivo tetracycline-induced Wolbachia depletion could cause apoptosis independently of any mammalian host-derived factors. The increase in apoptosis in released microfilariae was not as extensive as in intrauterine 'stretched' microfilariae, and further experiments using isolated microfilariae only infections are planned to confirm this observation. The results are consistent with previous observations on the effect of Wolbachia depletion on microfilarial viability and transmission. The majority of microfilariae depleted of Wolbachia retain their motility and viability in the mammalian host but their ability to develop in the vector is compromised. The mechanism by which Wolbachia suppresses apoptosis remains unclear, but it may be achieved either by direct targeting of the apoptotic signaling cascade or indirectly by influencing host metabolism. Further studies to define the process by which Wolbachia regulates host nematode apoptosis may provide alternative targets to screen for drugs or biomarkers of anti-Wolbachia activity, which could yield alternative and improved therapeutic options for the control and elimination of lymphatic filariasis and onchocerciasis.
 This study aimed to test the hypothesis that tissue tropism plays an important role in selecting transmissible reassortants from various reassortants generated in pigs co-infected with avian and swine influenza A viruses (IAVs). The study used feral swine as the animal model and identified 30 of 254 possible reassortant genotypes between an avian H1N1 IAV and a swine H3N2 IAV, with most detected in middle and lower respiratory tracts. The results showed that tissue tropism could have selected which reassortant viruses were shed from the pigs. The findings illustrate how transmissible reassortants arise between avian and swine IAVs in pigs and could help identify transmissible reassortants with public health risks.The animal experiments were conducted under Biosafety Level 2 conditions and involved the use of Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells, human alveolar adenocarcinoma (A549) cells, chicken embryo fibroblasts (DF-1), and SNE and STE cells. The viruses were propagated on MDCK cells and titrated by the 50% tissue culture infective dose (TCID50) on MDCK cells and the 50% egg culture infective dose (EID50) on SPF 10-day-old chicken embryonated eggs. Viral RNA was extracted and viral cDNA transcript libraries were prepared and sequenced using a MiSeq Reagent Kit v2 with a MiSeq sequencing system. Polymorphisms were identified from alignments and subjected to a 20% coverage cutoff.The study found that the reassortants detected in middle and lower respiratory tracts showed large variations in growth properties in SNE at 33°C and STE at 37°C, but the reassortants detected in nasal wash fluids and turbinate could replicate well in SNE at 33°C and in STE at 37°C. These results suggest that tissue tropism contributes to the unbalanced distribution of reassortants through swine respiratory tract tissues.Receptor binding properties have been reported to be one of the key factors determining IAV host and tissue tropisms, but the results from this study suggest that other gene segments, such as the ribonucleoprotein complex and NS gene, could interact with the host genes and formulate such tissue tropisms. Influenza surveillance showed that a large number of genetic variants of subtype H1 and H3 IAVs are co-circulating and enzootic in domestic swine in the United States, and these reassortants can have large variation in tissue tropisms and transmissibility in mammals. Thus, genetic constellation is an important factor determining influenza tissue and host tropisms.In conclusion, the study findings illustrate how transmissible reassortants arise between avian and swine IAVs in pigs and could help identify transmissible reassortants with public health risks. The results demonstrate the importance of tissue tropism in selecting transmissible reassortants and highlight the role of feral swine as a potential intermediate host for generating and transmitting reassortant viruses containing both avian and swine influenza virus genes to domestic swine and ultimately to humans.
 The Saccharomyces cerevisiae polo-like kinase Cdc5 plays a role in promoting adaptation to the DNA damage checkpoint by attenuating the checkpoint through loss of Rad53 hyperphosphorylation. The process of adaptation occurs when cells are presented with persistent or irreparable DNA damage and escape the cell-cycle arrest imposed by the DNA damage checkpoint. The precise mechanism of adaptation remains unknown, but it is dose-dependent on Cdc5 and its overexpression promotes faster adaptation.Cdc5 acts to inhibit the checkpoint at the step of Rad53 hyperphosphorylation, as shown by a decrease in Rad53 phosphorylation and a loss of Rad53-dependent cell-cycle arrest. The early steps of checkpoint activation, including checkpoint sensor localization and Mec1-phosphorylation of Rad9, remain mostly unaffected by Cdc5 overproduction. However, the damage-induced interaction between phosphorylated Rad9 and Rad53 is significantly reduced, indicating that Cdc5 acts to disrupt this interaction and promote adaptation.The mechanism by which Cdc5 inhibits Rad53 hyperphosphorylation is not fully understood, but it is independent of the phosphatases Ptc2 and Ptc3. Cdc5 may act by disrupting Rad9 function without blocking Mec1/Tel1 phosphorylation of Rad9, as Rad9 multimerization is not affected by Cdc5 overexpression.Cdc5's kinase activity is necessary for its ability to inactivate checkpoint signaling, as shown by a decrease in Rad53 phosphorylation when Cdc5 is overexpressed or when using the kinase-defective allele cdc5-K110A. The cdc5-ad allele, which has a leucine mutated to a tryptophan at residue 251, shows a later and less robust decrease in Rad53 phosphorylation compared to CDC5 induction, consistent with its reduced ability to promote checkpoint adaptation.In summary, Cdc5 promotes adaptation to DNA damage by inhibiting the DNA damage checkpoint through loss of Rad53 hyperphosphorylation, allowing cells to adapt to DNA damage despite the presence of a persistent checkpoint signal. The mechanism by which Cdc5 inhibits Rad53 hyperphosphorylation is not fully understood, but it is independent of the phosphatases Ptc2 and Ptc3 and requires Cdc5 kinase activity.
 This study focuses on the persistent perceptual alternations following the build-up phase of auditory streaming, a phenomenon where the initial perception of integrated or segregated streams switches back and forth over long stimulus presentations. The authors develop a neuromechanistic model of auditory bistability that accurately reproduces the dynamics of these alternations. The model is based on a three-population network, with each population pooling inputs from regions of A1 centered at frequencies A, B, and (A+B)/2. The model includes cortical dynamics, spike frequency adaptation, NMDA-excitation, and slow depression of excitation. The authors validate the model by comparing its predictions with psychophysical experiments and show that it accurately captures the dependence of mean dominance durations on the tone frequency difference. The study also explores the relationship between attention and auditory bistability and provides a platform for further investigations into the mechanisms of attention in auditory streaming.
 This study explores the use of rhodamine B, a thiol-reactive fluorescent dye, as a marking technique for male Aedes aegypti in the context of sterile insect technique (SIT) and incompatible insect technique (IIT) control strategies. Rhodamine B was administered to males through sugar-feeding, resulting in successful body and seminal fluid marking with minimal impact on male survival and mating competitiveness. The marking persisted through the reported life expectancy of released males and was transferred to wild females during field releases, as well as the recapture of marked males. Rhodamine B marking is a potentially useful tool for SIT/IIT programs to measure male mating efficacy and a viable body marking technique for male-based mark-release-recapture (MRR) experiments. As a standalone method for use in mating competitiveness assays, rhodamine B marking is less expensive and less time-consuming than alternative methods such as PCR, stable isotope marking, or female fertility assays. However, the longevity of the mark is contingent upon males not sugar-feeding soon after release, and further investigations into the effect of multiple sugar-feedings on male marking and survival are warranted. Overall, rhodamine B marking is an economical and rapid evaluation method for male-based control strategies and has the potential to enable operators to determine the efficacy of their control method quickly and easily, allowing them to optimize releases to achieve optimal population suppression. However, small-scale field MRR experiments are recommended to obtain more accurate estimates of male survival and mark persistence prior to adoption for operational assessments, and comparisons to classical marking techniques such as fluorescent powders would benefit the understanding of the utility of rhodamine B body marking in male-focused survival and dispersal studies.
 Boophilin is a multifunctional protease inhibitor expressed in the midgut of the tick Rhipicephalus microplus, which inhibits thrombin, plasmin, and elastase, with residual activity towards kallikrein and FVIIa. It inhibits thrombin in a non-canonical manner, despite possessing a canonical reactive site loop. Boophilin's importance is demonstrated by the 20% reduction in egg weight production when its gene is silenced. This effect might be due to inhibition of midgut proteases initiating and sustaining inflammatory reactions, which are detrimental to tick survival.Boophilin expressed in HEK293 cells behaves as a classical, non-competitive inhibitor of thrombin with respect to small chromogenic substrates, with a Ki ~ 100 nM. It inhibits thrombin-induced platelet aggregation and fibrin formation in vitro. Boophilin does not inhibit the amidolytic activity of γ-thrombin or interact with γ-thrombin by SPR. However, PPACK-thrombin retains its ability to interact with the inhibitor. The crystal structure determination of Boophilin reveals that residues in the N-terminal interact with the catalytic site of thrombin while the C-terminal Kunitz domain binds to the anion binding exosite-1.Boophilin interferes with the contact pathway through different mechanisms: i) Boophilin is a classical and non-competitive inhibitor of FXIa with a Ki ~ 100 nM, which inhibits FIX activation, providing direct evidence that Boophilin blocks the coagulation cascade by interfering with FIXa production. ii) Boophilin also partially prevents kallikrein amidolytic activity and the reciprocal activation without affecting FXIIa. iii) Boophilin interacts productively with kallikrein to prevent inflammatory reactions.Platelets play a critical role in hemostasis, and several proteases besides thrombin are known to modulate platelet function and contribute to thrombosis through release of poly-phosphates, which amplifies FXI activation by thrombin in the contact pathway. Furthermore, platelet cross-talk with neutrophils is associated with NETs formation, a critical player in FXII activation in vivo. Neutrophils also release cathepsin-G that promotes PAR activation and thrombosis and elastase that potentiates platelet aggregation by other agonists and cleaves TFPI. Neutrophil activation also takes place through the complement cascade, which is activatable by plasmin. Here, we found that Boophilin inhibits plasmin- and cathepsin G-induced platelet aggregation and partially attenuates elastase activity, according to degradation of TFPI in vitro.Altogether, these results suggest that Boophilin interrupts the platelet-neutrophil axis associated with thrombosis, shifting the hemostatic system towards an anti-coagulant phenotype. This contention was verified through testing the effects of Boophilin in vivo, using the FeCl3 carotid artery thrombosis model. FeCl3 causes endothelial cell injury, with exposure of pro-hemostatic sub-endothelial matrix leading to thrombus formation. Our experiments demonstrated that Boophilin effectively inhibits vessel occlusion under our experimental conditions with prolongation of the bleeding time. The antithrombotic effect of Boophilin is likely the result of inhibiting multiple targets, including thrombin, FXIa, and enzymes associated with neutrophils and platelets. However, the relative contribution of each enzyme inhibition in the antithrombotic properties of Boophilin in vivo remains to be determined.One explanation for why midgut Boophilin behaves as a multifunctional, relatively weak inhibitor, with low specificity, might be that in the midgut, the coagulation and inflammatory reactions are no longer under control of endogenous inhibitors involved in the regulation of proteolytic cascades. In its absence, pro-hemostatic/inflammatory pathways are severely unbalanced and activated in the midgut. Attenuation of only one enzyme in the midgut would not suffice to prevent inflamm
 Dosage compensation in mammals is achieved through doubling X-linked gene expression in both sexes and X inactivation in females. The mechanism controlling X up-regulation may involve DNA sequence-based and/or epigenetic mechanisms. To investigate X expression adjustment in response to ploidy, expression arrays were used to compare X-linked and autosomal gene expression in human triploid cells. Triploid cells with one active X had lower overall X-linked gene expression compared to diploid cells, while those with two active X's had higher expression. However, the expression of individual genes varied, suggesting that not all genes respond to a change in ploidy in the same manner. The absolute level of autosomal gene expression did not differ between triploid and diploid cells, indicating that gene expression is strictly proportional to the number of autosomal sets. In triploid cells with one active X, X expression is adjusted upward from a basic doubling, presumably mediated by an epigenetic mechanism that senses X expression but does not respond to the simple X:A genomic ratio. This mechanism may act on a subset of genes whose expression dosage in relation to autosomal expression is critical. The results suggest that XYY triploid cultures have a deficiency in expression of genes that escape X inactivation compared to XXX triploid cultures, which could contribute to the early lethality of XYY triploid fetuses. Understanding the mechanisms involved in X up-regulation in mammals will require further investigation at early embryonic stages.
 The opportunistic fungal pathogen Candida albicans undergoes morphological and transcriptional adaptation in the switch from commensalism to pathogenicity. While previous gene-knockout studies have identified factors involved in this transformation, it remains unclear how these factors are regulated to coordinate the switch. Investigating morphogenetic control by post-translational phosphorylation has provided important regulatory insights into this process, specifically focusing on the coordinated control by the cyclin-dependent kinase Cdc28.The Fkh2 transcription factor was identified as a regulatory target of both Cdc28 and the cell wall biosynthesis kinase Cbk1, in a role distinct from its conserved function in cell cycle progression. In stationary phase yeast cells, 2D gel electrophoresis shows a diverse pool of Fkh2 phospho-isoforms, and for a short window on hyphal induction, the phosphorylation profile is transformed before reverting to the yeast profile. This transformation does not occur when stationary phase cells are reinoculated into fresh medium supporting yeast growth. Mass spectrometry and mutational analyses identified residues phosphorylated by Cdc28 and Cbk1, and substitution of these residues with non-phosphorylatable alanine altered the yeast phosphorylation profile and abrogated the characteristic transformation to the hyphal profile.Transcript profiling of the phosphorylation site mutant revealed that the hyphal phosphorylation profile is required for the expression of genes involved in pathogenesis, host interaction, and biofilm formation. These changes in gene expression resulted in corresponding defects in pathogenic processes. Furthermore, Fkh2 interacts with the chromatin modifier Pob3 in a phosphorylation-dependent manner, providing a possible mechanism by which the phosphorylation of Fkh2 regulates its specificity.Thus, a novel cell cycle-independent phospho-regulatory event has been discovered that subverts a key component of the cell cycle machinery to a role in the switch from commensalism to pathogenicity.
 This study aimed to elucidate the location, dynamics, and molecular mechanisms of alpha herpesvirus egress using live-cell fluorescence microscopy and TIRF microscopy. The researchers found that individual virus particles travel to the plasma membrane inside small, acidified secretory vesicles, and Rab GTPases, including Rab6a, Rab8a, and Rab11a, are present on the virus secretory vesicle. These vesicles undergo fast, directional transport directly to the site of exocytosis, which is most frequently near patches of LL5β, a complex that anchors microtubules to the plasma membrane. After exocytosis, particles remain tightly confined on the outer cell surface. The findings suggest that the intracellular transport pathways and exocytosis mechanisms that mediate alpha herpesvirus egress are linked, and Rab proteins play crucial roles in this process.
 This study establishes a positive correlation between the antigenic variations of human influenza viruses and the excess mortality they cause. The researchers used a simplified virus-host interaction model to analyze the antigenic strains of human influenza viruses A (H1N1), A (H3N2), and B, and found that the ability of a virus to cause disease, as reflected in its virus isolation rate, largely determines its ability to cause death. The study also developed a computational approach, EADpred, to predict antigenic distances between A (H1N1) viral strains based on their HA sequences, enabling rapid assessment of the potential impact of an influenza virus on human death even before infection occurs. The findings will help develop timely and sensible preparedness programs to balance public health gains and social and economic costs. The data sources included HI data, HA sequences, US mortality data, US population data, and other surveillance data regarding influenza in the US. The antigenic strains were defined based on vaccine strains recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) or reference strains used by the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The antigenic distance between two strains was calculated based on HI data using the Archetti-Horsfall method. The excess all-cause mortalities for seasons 1977–2008 were calculated using Simonsen's method. The estimation of excess mortality attributed to an antigenic strain in a given period was based on the virus isolation rate, the proportion of clinical samples that were tested positive for the antigenic strain in the given period. The study analyzed the correlation between antigenic variation and excess mortality for all three subtypes of human influenza viruses, A (H1N1), A (H3N2), and B, in the flu seasons from 1977–2009. The researchers found that the antigenic distances between an antigenic strain and its previous antigenic strains were strongly correlated with the total excess all-cause mortalities caused by the antigenic strains. The study also compared the correlation between antigenic distance and excess all-cause mortality to the correlation between genetic distance and excess all-cause mortality. The development of EADpred consisted of four steps: identification of antigenic epitopes, transformation of amino acid changes into changes in physicochemical properties, integration of the contributions of the six derived antigenic epitopes to predict antigenic distance, and model parameterization and assessment. The study was carried out using the statistical package R and compared the performance of EADpred to one of the best previous site-based methods.
 In a study to determine if Leishmania parasites of different species could survive and multiply within each other's parasitophorous vacuoles (PVs), macrophages were infected with both Leishmania amazonensis and Leishmania major. Leishmania are dimorphic trypanosomatid parasites that induce cutaneous, muco-cutaneous, or visceral disease in humans and other animals. Elongated, proliferating extracellular promastigote forms colonize the midgut of sandfly vectors and differentiate into infective, stationary phase metacyclic promastigotes that can be released into the dermis of mammalian hosts. Macrophages and other mammalian cells internalize infective promastigotes within PVs, in which parasites differentiate into smaller, internally flagellated, oval-shaped amastigote forms. Leishmania PVs are bound by a membrane and undergo compositional changes as they fuse with late endosomes/lysosomes and possibly with other vesicles.Macrophages infected with L. amazonensis were superinfected with L. major amastigotes or promastigotes, and the formation and fate of chimeric PVs were investigated. While L. major amastigotes were excluded from L. amazonensis PVs, L. major promastigotes were delivered into L. amazonensis PVs where they survived and multiplied but did not differentiate into amastigote forms. In contrast, L. major promastigotes sheltered in their own unfused PVs either died or differentiated into amastigotes. The mechanisms underlying the lack of fusion of incoming L. major amastigote-containing PVs with preformed L. amazonensis PVs and the permissiveness of the latter for fusion with L. major promastigote-carrying PVs remain to be elucidated. The study highlights the importance of continuous live recordings in studies of intracellular parasitism and provides insights into the interactions between different Leishmania species within host cells.
 This study investigates the importance of insulin signaling in the growth, development, sexual maturation, and egg production of adult Schistosoma japonicum using the insulin receptors (SjIRs) cloned from this parasite. Biolayer Interferometry was used to show that human insulin can bind the L1 subdomain (insulin binding domain) of recombinant SjIR1 and SjIR2, and RNA interference (RNAi) was employed to knock down the expression of SjIRs in adult S. japonicum. The results showed that the transcription levels of other important downstream genes within the insulin pathway, associated with glucose metabolism and schistosome fecundity, were also impacted significantly. Furthermore, a decrease in glucose uptake was observed in SjIR-knockdown worms compared with luciferase controls. In vaccine/challenge experiments, rSjLD1 and rSjLD2 depressed female growth, intestinal granuloma density, and faecal egg production in S. japonicum in mice presented with a low dose challenge infection. These findings re-emphasize the potential of the SjIRs as veterinary transmission blocking vaccine candidates against zoonotic schistosomiasis japonica in China and the Philippines. The study was conducted in accordance with ethical guidelines and animal experimentation was approved by the Animal Ethics Committee of the QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute.
 The study explores the functional link between HIV-1 Nef and Env, specifically investigating how Nef affects HIV-1 sensitivity to neutralizing antibodies targeting distinct features of Env. Nef was found to confer resistance to 2F5 and 4E10, two potent neutralizing monoclonal antibodies (nAbs) targeting the membrane proximal external region (MPER) of TMgp41, but had no effect on HIV-1 neutralization by other reagents. This resistance was observed with Nef from a diverse range of HIV-1 and SIV isolates, as well as with HIV-1 virions bearing Env from CCR5- and CXCR4-tropic viruses, clade B and C viruses, or primary isolates. The activity requires Nef myristoylation but is genetically separable from other Nef functions. Glycosylated-Gag from MoMLV substituted for Nef in conferring resistance to 2F5 and 4E10, indicating that this activity is conserved in a retrovirus that does not encode Nef. The data is consistent with a model in which Nef alters MPER recognition in the context of the virion membrane, as Nef and Glycosylated-Gag decreased the efficiency of virion capture by 2F5 and 4E10, but not by other nAbs. Overall, the study demonstrates that Nef protects lentiviruses from one of the most broadly-acting classes of neutralizing antibodies, with important implications for anti-HIV-1 immunity and AIDS pathogenesis.
 The RNA polymerase II (Pol II) is a eukaryotic enzyme responsible for synthesizing messenger RNA (mRNA) using a DNA template. The transcription process involves the formation of a transcription bubble, where the template DNA strand separates and bends, leaving a DNA strand exposed as the template for mRNA synthesis. Nucleotides need to diffuse into the active site for incorporation into the mRNA strand. Two possible entry routes for nucleotides have been proposed: the secondary channel and the main channel.Crystallographic structures of Pol II have been useful in understanding the structural basis of transcription, but the conformation of the unpaired non-template DNA part of the full transcription bubble is still unknown. Gaining structural information of the full transcription bubble is crucial for understanding the Pol II transcription process and the possible routes for nucleotide entry.In this study, researchers built a structural model of Pol II with a complete transcription bubble based on multiple sources of existing structural data and used molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and structural analysis to shed light on nucleotide entry pathways. They found that although both channels have enough space to allow nucleotide loading, the percentage of MD conformations containing enough space for nucleotide loading through the secondary channel is twice higher than that of the main channel.Further energetic study based on MD simulations with nucleotides loaded in the channels revealed that the diffusion of nucleotides through the main channel is greatly disfavored by electrostatic repulsion between the nucleotides and the highly negatively charged backbones of nucleotides in the non-template DNA strand. These findings suggest that the secondary channel is the major route for nucleotide entry during Pol II transcription.
 This study investigates the influence of contextual bars on the perception of a target bar in visual object recognition. Human observers judged whether a target bar was present at the center of a display, given a weak or missing input contrast at the target location with or without contextual bars. The results showed that observers were more likely to perceive a target when the context had a weaker rather than stronger contrast, and when the context could perceptually group well with the target. A Bayesian model of visual inference accounted for the data, illustrating that context influences perception in two ways: (1) biasing observers' prior belief that a target should be present according to visual grouping principles, and (2) biasing observers' internal model of the likely input contrasts caused by a target bar. The data suggest that cortical areas beyond the primary visual cortex are responsible for the visual inferences. The study used simple stimuli of bars, easy to manipulate and describe, and revealed that weaker colinear contexts induce stronger biases to fill-in the missing target, contrary to the expectation from previous findings of contextual facilitation on input sensitivities. The Bayesian model successfully fit the data using only three parameters, demonstrating the adequacy of the account.
 LlpABW is a bacteriocin produced by Pseudomonas putida BW11M1, which belongs to the monocot mannose-binding lectin (MMBL) family. It consists of two MMBL domains, N-domain and C-domain, connected by a β-hairpin extension. The N-domain and C-domain exhibit pseudo-threefold symmetry and share a common β-prism fold. The C-terminal β-hairpin extension is highly bent due to a β-bulge inserted into its second β-strand and is absent in plant representatives. The two domains are connected by a two-stranded anti-parallel β-sheet, extensive hydrophobic and hydrogen bonds, and interactions between the C-terminal Val140-Asp145 stretch of the C-domain and the N-terminal Val115-Asp118 and side chains of Ser15 and Pro32 of the N-domain. The crystal structure of LlpABW reveals that it has an affinity of 2.1 mM for the pentasaccharide GlcNAcβ (1–2) Manα (1–3) [GlcNAcβ (1–2) Manα (1–6)]Man, the highest among all the tested oligo-mannosides. The mutations in the conserved valine residue of the QxDxNxVxY motifs in LlpABW did not affect its overall structure, but the mutations in the IIIC site strongly diminished its activity. The lack of electron density at the site IIC in the Me-Man soak indicates that this site does not recognize this ligand or that its affinity is so low that recognition would only be achieved in the context of a larger and as yet unidentified mannose-containing ligand. The N-domain appears to play a major role in target selection, as demonstrated by assessing the differential activity of domain chimers against two target strains, diagnostic for the LlpABW- and LlpA1-specific killing. The β-hairpin does not appear to be a specificity determinant, although it constitutes the most variable region among LlpA-like bacteriocins. Possibly, it is required for thermodynamic stability since it needs to be intact in LlpABW. An equivalent C-terminal stretch is absent from the Xanthomonas citri LlpA-like bacteriocin. LlpABW as a bactericidal protein fits within the picture of MMBL domains being involved in general defense mechanisms, as some of these plant lectins trigger apoptosis in cancer cells, and their identification in fish mucus and epithelial cells is in line with a general protective (antimicrobial) function for MMBL domains.
 The genomic GC-content of bacteria varies significantly, ranging from less than 20% to over 70%. This variation is primarily attributed to differences in mutation patterns between species. Through an analysis of synonymous polymorphism in 149 bacterial species, researchers found a large excess of GC→AT mutations over AT→GC mutations at 4-fold degenerate sites, which is inconsistent with mutation bias. The excess of GC→AT mutations is also observed at 2-fold sites and is strongly correlated with genomic GC-content. These findings suggest that there is selection to increase synonymous GC-content and, consequently, genomic base composition in many bacteria.
 The expansion of trinucleotide repeats (TNRs), specifically CAG/CTG repeats, is responsible for various neurodegenerative diseases, including Huntington's disease (HD), myotonic dystrophy 1 (DM1), and Friedreich ataxia (FRDA). The instability and toxicity of TNRs are tissue-selective, and the mechanisms underlying this selectivity are not well understood. Previous studies suggest that transcription may play a role in TNR instability, but the relationship between transcription and instability in vivo remains unclear.To investigate the relationship between chromatin structure, transcription, and tissue-selective CAG instability, researchers used R6/1 and R6/2 HD transgenic mouse lines. These mice express a similar transgene but have different integration sites, and they exhibit tissue-specific instability. The results showed that instability rates were higher in R6/2 tissues, and this was correlated with increased chromatin accessibility and transcription of the HD transgene.Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments and quantitative expression analyses were performed on the striatum and cerebellum of R6/1 and R6/2 mice. The data showed that the HD transgene is integrated in a more euchromatinized and transcriptionally active region in R6/2 mice than in R6/1 mice. However, chromatin accessibility and transcription initiation at the HD locus were similar in the striatum and cerebellum of R6 mice, indicating that tissue-selective CAG instability is unlikely to be simply explained by an accessible or transcriptionally active chromatin state.Interestingly, H3K36 trimethylation and elongating RNA Pol II were increased at the HD locus in the striatum of both R6/1 and R6/2 mice. These results suggest that transcription elongation mediates tissue-specific somatic CAG instability in HD.In conclusion, the data from this study support the view that transcription elongation is regulated in a tissue-dependent manner, contributing to tissue-selective CAG instability. The findings may have implications for understanding the mechanisms underlying tissue-selective instability of other TNRs associated with diseases.
 The study aimed to identify and map Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs) research networks in Germany and their partners abroad using bibliometric data. A SCOPUS database search was conducted for articles with German author affiliations published between 2002 and 2012 for 11 kinetoplastid and helminth diseases. The data was analyzed using open-source tools such as OpenRefine, OpenStreetMaps, Table2Net, and Gephi to extract co-authorship networks and visualize research collaborations.The results showed that 1,187 out of 26,833 publications with at least one German author affiliation were identified, and 972 publications were analyzed for the five most published-about diseases. Of these, 4,007 individual authors and 863 research institutions were extracted. The majority of co-authors outside Germany were from high-income countries and Brazil. Collaborations with partners on the African continent remained scattered.The research network characteristics varied strongly between diseases, and the share of NTD publications with German affiliations was approximately half of its share in other fields of medical research. The findings underline the need to identify barriers and expand Germany’s otherwise strong research activities towards NTDs.Geospatial analysis of research collaborations with partners abroad can support decisions to strengthen research capacity, particularly in low- and middle-income countries. Identifying knowledge hubs within individual researcher networks complements traditional scientometric indicators and facilitates data-driven health policies.The study's findings contribute to the prioritization of efforts in German NTD research at a time of impending local and global policy decisions. The analysis revealed that Germany's NTD research output is lower compared to other high-income countries but has a focus on Leishmaniasis, Schistosomiasis, and Chagas disease research. The relatively higher publication output on Sleeping Sickness and Onchocerciasis indicates comparative strength in German NTD research.The research landscape in Germany is spread across different individual universities and publicly funded research entities, and research cooperation with low- and middle-income countries has been the focus of the German government. However, the analysis of German NTD researcher co-authorship patterns revealed that publication output remains dominated by collaborations of researchers from well-known research powerhouses such as the United States and the United Kingdom. Brazil was the most productive collaborating country outside of Germany, with more co-authorships than all other BRICS countries combined.The total number of co-authorships from German research partners in low-income countries was meagre, being only a tenth of the number of those from high-income countries. Analyzing co-authorships between researchers on the African continent and Germany specifically showed that there are only a few very active collaborations. The findings suggest that capacities for research collaborations exist within a range of different countries, even though the overall number of contributions from low-income countries remained comparatively low.The study's findings demonstrate the potential of social network analysis as a tool to apply to the R&D field and provide valuable insights into German research capacities in selected NTDs. The findings showed that 4.4% of all NTD publications worldwide involve an author from a German research institution. The study's findings could contribute to identifying research strengths that can be enhanced and weaknesses to amend through encouraging collaboration in areas of shared expertise. Future research should provide further in-depth analysis of individual researcher and network productivity, scientific impact, and translational success in the development of new products for NTDs.
 Chagas disease, caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi, is the most important vector-borne disease in Latin America with an estimated 9.8-11 million infected people, 60 million at risk, and a disease burden of over 800,000 DALYs [1-3]. Non-domiciliated triatomine vectors, which do not establish permanent domestic colonies but occasionally infest domestic habitats by immigration from peridomestic and/or sylvatic habitats, are responsible for a significant transmission risk [6-10]. A mathematical model was developed to predict the temporal variations in abundance of non-domiciliated vectors inside houses and evaluate the efficacy of various control strategies [16].The model accurately fitted and predicted field data in the absence and presence of insecticide spraying. Pyrethroid spraying was effective when 50 mg/m2 were applied yearly within a two-month period matching the immigration season, resulting in an >80% reduction in bug abundance. However, larger doses or more frequent interventions did not improve efficacy and decreased drastically for different timing and lower frequencies of intervention [16]. Alternatively, the use of insect screens consistently reduced bug abundance proportionally to the reduction of the vector immigration rate [16].Control of non-domiciliated vectors is challenging since it cannot be achieved solely by insecticide spraying due to the need for yearly application and an accurate understanding of the temporal pattern of immigration [2]. Insect screens offer an effective and sustainable alternative, which may be part of multi-disease interventions for the integrated control of neglected vector-borne diseases [53]. The model's demographic parameters were estimated using two years of field data from the Yucatan peninsula, Mexico, and the predictive value of the model was tested on an independent data set [16].In summary, the model accurately predicted the temporal variations in abundance of non-domiciliated triatomine vectors inside houses and evaluated the efficacy of various control strategies. Pyrethroid spraying was effective when applied at the right time and frequency, but insect screens offered a more sustainable alternative for controlling non-domiciliated vectors. These findings have implications for the integrated control of neglected vector-borne diseases and highlight the importance of mathematical modeling in informing public health policies.
 This study investigates how people's tastes for preferences, specifically in the context of temporal discounting, can be influenced by observing others' choices. The researchers hypothesized that people are uncertain about their own preferences and that this uncertainty can lead to preference shifts when exposed to social information. The study involved a large community sample of 14-24-year-olds who completed a temporal discounting task.The results showed that participants displayed decision variability, which was better accounted for by a random-taste than a response-noise model. The apparent taste shifts were well described by a Bayesian model that took into account taste uncertainty and the relevance of social information. The findings have significant implications for neuroscientific, clinical, and developmental research.The study found that participants' choices were influenced by the choices of a simulated other, and that this effect was more pronounced when the other's choices were more different from their own. The researchers suggest that this may be due to the uncertainty-relevance model, which predicts that people are more likely to shift towards the preferences of others when they are uncertain about their own preferences.The study also found that the degree of preference-shifting was related to the variance in the data, as expected from the model. The researchers suggest that this may be due to the fact that people are more likely to update their beliefs when they are uncertain and when the new information is relevant.The study has important implications for understanding how social influences can shape our preferences and beliefs. It suggests that people are not fixed in their preferences and that social information can play a significant role in shaping our uncertain beliefs. The findings may also have implications for understanding the development of preferences over time and for clinical interventions aimed at changing preferences in areas such as addiction and mental health.
 Rice is a monocotyledonous crop with fibrous root systems, and its root growth is influenced by ethylene and auxin. Ethylene inhibits root elongation through auxin biosynthesis, and YUC8/REIN7, a member of the YUC gene family, is involved in this process. YUC8/REIN7 catalyzes the conversion of IPA to IAA, a rate-limiting step in the IPA pathway, and its expression is induced by ethylene through OsEIL1. The findings suggest that ethylene stimulates auxin biosynthesis in roots through the ethylene signaling component OsEIL1, and YUC8/REIN7 is one of the factors that modulate auxin biosynthesis. The regulation of YUC8/REIN7 is directly activated by OsEIL1, leading to an increase in auxin accumulation, which in turn decreases root elongation. The YUC8/REIN7-mediated pathway is partially required by OsEIL1 signaling for the regulation of the ethylene-inhibited root elongation. Additionally, ethylene-inhibited root growth requires YUC8/REIN7-dependent auxin biosynthesis. Ethylene and auxin interact in rice root elongation, and further investigations are needed to elucidate their relationship in the control of rice roots.
 The long noncoding RNA MALAT1 is upregulated in cancer tissues and is involved in regulating cellular proliferation. Its expression is cell cycle-regulated, with high levels during G1/S and mitosis. Depletion of MALAT1 in human diploid cells results in G1-to-S transition and mitotic progression defects, as evidenced by downregulation of genes involved in G1/S and mitotic progression. MALAT1 is proposed to act as a "molecular sponge" to titrate the cellular pool of SR splicing factors, creating a gradient of functionally competent splicing factors and controlling alternative splicing. MALAT1 also influences the expression and/or pre-mRNA processing of oncogenic transcription factors, especially those that control mitotic progression. Depletion of MALAT1 in specific cell lines, such as HDFs, results in p53 activation and cell cycle arrest, while in other cell lines, such as HeLa and U2OS, it results in mitotic defects. The mechanism by which MALAT1 influences p53 signaling pathway is not yet clear.MALAT1 interacts with several pre-mRNA splicing factors, including SR splicing factors, and influences alternative splicing of pre-mRNAs by regulating the distribution and activity of SR splicing factors. Its depletion in post-G1/S stage of the cell cycle results in defects in the expression of a large number of genes involved in mitotic progression. Specifically, CENPE and B-MYB display defects in alternative splicing and reduced expression in MALAT1-depleted cells. CENPE is a kinesin-like motor protein that plays a crucial role in chromosome segregation and spindle elongation, while B-MYB is a transcription factor with known cell cycle control functions and is highly overexpressed in several cancers. The reduction in B-MYB and its mitotic targets in MALAT1-depleted cells is the major effector leading to aberrant mitotic gene expression.B-MYB binds to the MALAT1 promoter and could potentially regulate MALAT1 expression, indicating that MALAT1 and B-MYB could be part of a positive regulatory loop. MALAT1-depleted cells also show changes in alternative splicing of B-MYB and CENPE transcripts and increased binding of SRSF1 to the exons of these transcripts. The dynamic changes in MALAT1 levels during the cell cycle titrate the intracellular pool of SR proteins and its association with pre-mRNAs, which in turn influence alternative splicing, stability, and expression of specific mRNAs, including B-MYB and CENPE.In summary, MALAT1 is a crucial player in mitotic progression that is independent of its involvement in G1/S progression. Its depletion results in defects in the expression of a large number of genes involved in mitotic progression, specifically CENPE and B-MYB. The reduction in B-MYB and its mitotic targets in MALAT1-depleted cells is the major effector leading to aberrant mitotic gene expression. MALAT1 and B-MYB could be part of a positive regulatory loop, and the dynamic changes in MALAT1 levels during the cell cycle influence alternative splicing, stability, and expression of specific mRNAs.
 This study investigates the role of interleukin-7 (IL-7) in HIV-1 transmission through an ex vivo system of human cervico-vaginal tissue. IL-7 is a cytokine present in semen and plays a crucial role in T cell development and homeostasis. The study found that IL-7 significantly enhances HIV-1 replication in cervico-vaginal and lymphoid tissue, promoting the proliferation and preventing apoptosis of infected CD4+ T cells and new potential target cells for HIV-1. The results suggest that the increase in the number and prolongation of the lifespan of HIV-1-infected cells, along with uninfected cells, will result in expanding the founder pool of infected cells, thus enhancing the risk of HIV-1 acquisition. The concentration of IL-7 in semen of HIV-1-infected men may be a key determinant of the efficiency of HIV-1 transmission to uninfected partners through vaginal intercourse. The study used tonsillar and cervico-vaginal tissue blocks, which were cultured for 6, 9, or 12 days in the presence or absence of 5 or 25 ng/mL of recombinant human IL-7. The results showed that IL-7 enhanced HIV-1 replication in both cervico-vaginal and lymphoid tissue, as evidenced by an increase in HIV-1 p24gag antigen in the medium of tissue cultures and an increase in the percentage of CD8− p24gag+ T cells. The study also found that IL-7 decreases apoptosis in HIV-1-infected CD4+ T cells, as shown by a decrease in the percentage of APO2+ T cells, and increases the expression of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. The study used tonsillar and cervico-vaginal tissue blocks, which were cultured for 6, 9, or 12 days in the presence or absence of 5 or 25 ng/mL of recombinant human IL-7. The results showed that IL-7 enhanced HIV-1 replication in both cervico-vaginal and lymphoid tissue, as evidenced by an increase in HIV-1 p24gag antigen in the medium of tissue cultures and an increase in the percentage of CD8− p24gag+ T cells. The study also found that IL-7 decreases apoptosis in HIV-1-infected CD4+ T cells, as shown by a decrease in the percentage of APO2+ T cells, and increases the expression of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. The study used tonsillar and cervico-vaginal tissue blocks, which were cultured for 6, 9, or 12 days in the presence or absence of 5 or 25 ng/mL of recombinant human IL-7. The results showed that IL-7 enhanced HIV-1 replication in both cervico-vaginal and lymphoid tissue, as evidenced by an increase in HIV-1 p24gag antigen in the medium of tissue cultures and an increase in the percentage of CD8− p24gag+ T cells. The study also found that IL-7 decreases apoptosis in HIV-1-infected CD4+ T cells, as shown by a decrease in the percentage of APO2+ T cells, and increases the expression of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. The study used tonsillar and cervico-vaginal tissue blocks, which were cultured for 6, 9, or 12 days in the presence or absence of 5 or 25 ng/mL of recombinant human IL-7. The results showed that IL-7 enhanced HIV-1 replication in both cervico-vaginal and lymphoid tissue, as evidenced by an increase in HIV-1 p24gag antigen in the medium of tissue cultures and an increase in the percentage of CD8− p24gag+ T cells. The study also found that IL-7 decreases apoptosis in HIV-1-infected CD4+ T cells, as shown by a decrease in the percentage of APO2+ T cells, and increases the expression of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. The study used tonsillar and cervico-vaginal tissue blocks, which were cultured for 6, 9, or 12 days in the
 This study explores the origins of genetic robustness in metabolic networks across hundreds of bacterial species and various simulated growth environments. The authors provide evidence that variations in species' metabolic robustness reflect ecological adaptations, decoupling robustness into two components: environmental-dependent and environmental-independent. The environmental-dependent component is responsible for at least 20% of non-essential reactions and is associated with a species' lifestyle, while the environmental-independent component is linked to a species' intrinsic metabolic capacities, such as fast growth or extensive secondary metabolite production. The study also identifies reactions uniquely susceptible to perturbations in human pathogens, potentially serving as novel drug targets. The authors conduct a large-scale computational study using metabolic data from KEGG and topology-driven approaches to predict an organism's viability in a given environment based on its ability to produce essential biomass metabolites. They find that environmental robustness significantly correlates with two established measures of species' habitat variability and metabolic network modularity. By integrating the expansion algorithm and the seed algorithm, they provide a new model that predicts robustness across species, environments, and condition-dependent and independent reactions. The findings suggest that genetic robustness is associated with environmental robustness and that both evolve as a result of adaptations to different ecological niches and lifestyles.
 This study investigates the role of the Elongator complex, specifically its catalytic subunit Elp3, in transcriptional silencing and maintenance of genome stability in budding yeast. Elp3 is a histone acetyltransferase that interacts with the Proliferating Cell Nuclear Antigen (PCNA) and is required for efficient telomeric gene silencing and resistance to DNA damaging agents.Cells lacking Elp3 exhibit defects in transcriptional silencing and are sensitive to DNA damaging agents such as hydroxyurea (HU) and methyl methanesulfonate (MMS). The silencing defects and HU sensitivity of Elp3 mutant cells are due to compromised formation of the Elongator complex, as shown by the inability to purify all six subunits of the complex from cells expressing certain mutant alleles.Elp3 interacts genetically and biochemically with factors involved in nucleosome assembly pathways and DNA replication and repair. Elp3 forms a complex with PCNA, and mutations in Elp3 that affect the structural integrity of the Elongator complex also reduce telomeric gene silencing and HU resistance.The Elongator complex can be subdivided into two subcomplexes: Elp1, Elp2, and Elp3, and Elp4, Elp5, and Elp6. Elp1 binds to the Elp4–Elp6 subcomplex through its interaction with Elp3, but Elp2 did not co-purify with Elp1, Elp4, Elp5, and Elp6 in cells lacking Elp3. Elp2 interacted with Elp3 and that this interaction was important for Elp2 to be incorporated into an intact Elongator complex. Moreover, Elp2 did not co-purify with Elp5 from cells expressing the three elp3 site-specific mutants that contain mutations at the Radical SAM domain.Elp3 is needed for efficient progression through S phase under normal growth conditions and is essential when HU-induced replication stress occurs. Elp3 interacts with several components, including Asf1, Rtt109, H3K56Ac, and H4K5, 12, that are known to be involved in DNA replication-coupled nucleosome assembly. The Elongator complex interacts directly with PCNA in vivo and in vitro, and the interaction is not mediated through CAF-1.In summary, this study reveals a new function for Elp3 in maintaining genome stability and suggests that Elp3 functions in this process through a pathway genetically and physically linked to PCNA. The findings provide insights into the role of the Elongator complex in regulating DNA replication- or DNA repair-coupled nucleosome assembly and maintaining genome stability.
 Vaccination is an effective method to protect against infectious diseases, and the inoculum dose, or the amount of antigen or live attenuated pathogen used, plays an important role in vaccine design. Higher inoculum doses generally lead to better immune responses but may cause more severe side effects and reduce population coverage in the presence of vaccine shortages. Determining the optimal inoculum dose is crucial for rational vaccine design.In this study, researchers used data and mathematical models to investigate the impact of inoculum dose on immune protection and morbidity for influenza A virus (IAV) and human parainfluenza virus (HPIV) infections. They analyzed data from previously published studies on mice and cotton rats infected with different inoculum doses of IAV and HPIV, respectively. They also used data on the relationship between the innate immune response and morbidity from a human influenza infection study.The researchers developed a mechanistic, dynamical model of the infection dynamics based on ordinary differential equations to track target cells, virus, and immune response components. They used the model to fit the data for both IAV and HPIV, estimating the starting value for the virus inoculum and shared model parameters across different inoculum doses. They assessed model performance by the sum of squared residuals and normalized the contributions of each variable to allow for comparison.The findings showed that the impact of inoculum dose on immune protection and morbidity can depend on the specific pathogen. For both IAV and HPIV, higher inoculum doses generally led to stronger immune responses, but for HPIV, the innate response was triggered so strongly that it led to quick pathogen clearance and reduced adaptive immune response activation, resulting in reduced immune protection. The researchers noted that this pattern may not apply to real settings and that further studies are needed to validate the model.The study demonstrated that using a framework that combines mathematical models with experimental data can help in the rational design of vaccines and determination of the optimal inoculum dose for any pathogen. The researchers suggested that data collection for correlates of immune protection and direct or indirect markers of morbidity for a few different inoculum doses, as well as further measurements to validate models, would be essential for testing and calibrating models to produce predictions for protection and morbidity over a full range of inoculum doses. This information could help in vaccine design, particularly in cases where only limited antigen is available.
 This study investigates the role of Dnmt3a, a DNA methyltransferase, in maintaining DNA methylation patterns in cancer using a mouse model of lung cancer. Dnmt3a deficiency results in loss of methylation in large active chromatin domains. The study found that Dnmt3a deficiency leads to a significant increase in tumor size, higher histological grade, and papillary growth pattern. Whole-genome bisulfite sequencing was used to comprehensively characterize DNA methylation patterns in this model system. The results showed that Dnmt3a deficiency results in a loss of methylation in large active chromatin domains, which is important for maintaining normal methylation levels for a subset of genomic CpG dinucleotides. The study also found that repetitive elements, such as Line1, SineB1, and satellite repeat elements, showed similar methylation changes as those observed in the global analysis of CpG dinucleotides, further supporting the notion that Dnmt3a is required for effective maintenance methylation in a subset of sequences. The study also found that Dnmt3a deficiency affects gene expression, with 462 genes identified that showed a more than 2-fold difference in steady-state transcript abundance between Dnmt3awt and Dnmt3aKO tumors. The findings establish a close association between Dnmt3a-dependent DNA methylation and gene regulation. The study was carried out in accordance with the United States Health Research Extension Act and approved by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Committee on Animal Care.
 This study aimed to identify genetic variants associated with PR interval duration in individuals of African ancestry using genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in four cohorts. The results revealed a genome-wide significant association with the SNP rs3922844 in SCN5A, which explains approximately 2% of variability in PR interval duration. This association was not correlated with another SNP in SCN5A previously reported in European ancestry and had a larger effect estimate. The study also observed genome-wide significant association signals of SNPs in SCN10A, TBX5, and MEIS1, which are correlated with SNPs reported in previous GWAS in individuals of European ancestry. The findings suggest that common variants are likely to be relevant to individuals of African ancestry, but large-scale resequencing and functional experiments are necessary to identify the causal variants specific to each population. The study used a stringent significance threshold of 2.5×10−8 to account for the approximately two million common variant tests estimated to exist across the genome and applied methods to address population stratification and confounding by ancestry. The study was approved by the Institutional Review Board at all participating institutions and included individuals of self-reported African American ancestry from four cohort studies. PR interval duration was measured electronically using standard algorithms, and all genotyping was performed using the Affymetrix Genome-Wide Human SNP Array 6.0.
 Inhibitory interneurons play a crucial role in shaping the firing patterns of principal neurons in various brain systems. Two common inhibitory network motifs are feed-forward (FF) and feedback (FB) inhibition. In the locust olfactory system, both motifs can maintain sparse responses in Kenyon cells (KCs) and provide optimal odor discrimination. However, only FB inhibition can create a phase response consistent with in vivo data.In the locust, a single inhibitory cell, the giant GABAergic neuron (GGN), is the primary source of inhibition in the mushroom body (MB), and its inhibition is mediated by a feedback loop involving KCs and the GGN. While FF and FB inhibition can limit the firing of postsynaptic neurons, some specific properties differ between the two motifs. FF inhibition is controlled by upstream excitatory neurons, allowing for complete blocking of action potentials and creating relatively fast inhibition, which is suitable for precise temporal processing. FB inhibition, on the other hand, is well-suited to synchronize firing in populations of excitatory principal neurons.Sparse stimulus representations can arise through either FF or FB inhibitory motifs. Both motifs co-exist in the honeybee and mammal MB, with FF inhibition producing transient early-onset inhibition in the cortex and FB inhibition producing late-onset inhibition in the olfactory cortex. In the vertebrate olfactory pathway, FF inhibition in the cortex and FB inhibition in the olfactory cortex have distinct properties.Recent evidence suggests that the influence of GGN is consistent with the disparity in activity seen between the MB and lateral horn (LH). In the FB model, excitatory input from KCs drives GGN, which in turn sends inhibition back to KCs. In the FF model, PNs from the antennal lobe (AL) drive GGN, which then inhibits the KCs. While the FB model is supported by recent anatomical evidence from the locust, both FB and FF mechanisms may exist in insect olfactory systems.Both FF and FB models show oscillatory behavior, as the pacemaker for the whole circuit resides in the AL and consists of interactions between PNs and LNs. GGN responds to odors with non-spiking but oscillatory synchronized responses, as shown empirically. GGN provides inhibitory input to both KCs and LHNs and is the focal point for both inhibitory motifs.In both models, GGN increases its activity as odor concentration increases. At low odor concentrations, the FF model produces a more responsive GGN, while the FB model produces a more active GGN at high odor concentrations. Overall, the FB model generates responses that span a broader range of responses compared to the FF model.Despite significant differences in synaptic inhibition for each specific concentration, there is not a significant difference between FF and FB models across the entire range of odor concentrations. However, the inhibitory input from GGN follows a different profile in the two models, with main differences emerging at very low concentrations where the FF model delivers significantly stronger inhibition than the FB model.Inhibition from GGN regulates action potentials produced by KCs, decreasing the number of overall action potentials and the number of cells responding to the odor. Population sparseness is much greater when inhibition is included in the models, and responsive KCs typically fire a single action potential. Both FF and FB models limit the number of action potentials elicited by all concentrations of odor presentations but allow for different increases in the total number of action potentials as odor concentration increases.In summary, both FF and FB inhibitory motifs can maintain the MB to respond sparsely to odors, fulfilling a requirement for efficient formatting for memory storage. However, they exhibit distinct properties, such as the timing and extent of inhibition, which can impact downstream processing and communication between neurons. Further research is needed to fully understand the implications of these differences and how they contribute to the overall function of the olfactory system.
 The BRCA Challenge is an initiative within the Global Alliance for Genomics and Health (GA4GH) aimed at aggregating BRCA1 and BRCA2 data to support collaborative research on the impact of genetic variation on cancer risk. The project, which includes the BRCA Exchange website, has amassed over 20,000 unique BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants, with approximately 3,700 of those variants having expert classifications from the ENIGMA Consortium. The data is drawn from various sources, including ClinVar, BIC, ExAC, 1000 Genomes, and the ENIGMA consortium, and is publicly accessible through the BRCA Exchange website. The goal is to reduce uncertainty in variant interpretation and improve clinical decision-making by enabling easy access to expert-curated variant classifications and supporting evidence. However, challenges include the willingness of data holders to share, the need to ensure data quality, and the aggregation of individual-level data. Ongoing work includes engagement with patient and advocacy groups, the development of tools to make the database meaningful and useful to patients and advocates, and the integration of new data and further annotation of variants of uncertain clinical significance.
 The RAS/MAPK pathway is a crucial signaling cascade that transmits cellular responses to various developmental and oncogenic stimuli. RAS, a small GTPase, activates the RAF-MEK-MAPK module, leading to the phosphorylation and activation of MAPK. Genetic and biochemical studies have identified several factors regulating RAS/MAPK signaling, primarily focusing on RAF activation. However, the regulatory network surrounding the core MAPK module remains incompletely understood.To gain a comprehensive view of the factors modulating RAS/MAPK signaling, a genome-wide RNAi screen was conducted in Drosophila S2 cells. The screen identified 101 validated hits, most of which were previously known factors associated with the pathway. Epistasis experiments revealed that most hits unexpectedly worked downstream of MEK and specifically influenced MAPK expression. These hits mainly consisted of constitutive splicing factors, suggesting that splicing plays a specific role in establishing MAPK levels.Two representative members of this group, mago and eIF4AIII, were further characterized and found to regulate mapk splicing. This study provides an unprecedented assessment of the factors modulating RAS/MAPK signaling in Drosophila and suggests that pathway output does not solely rely on classical signaling events but also on the regulation of MAPK levels. Additionally, it indicates that core splicing components can also specifically impact alternative splicing.
 Recent studies have developed methods to reconstruct transmission trees of infectious disease outbreaks using densely sampled whole genome sequence (WGS) data. However, a fundamental limitation of these approaches is the requirement for genetic diversity to arise on epidemiological timescales. This means that the position of infected individuals in a transmission tree can only be resolved by genetic data if mutations have accumulated between the sampled pathogens. The concept of 'transmission divergence' is introduced to quantify and compare the useful genetic diversity expected from genetic data in different pathogen outbreaks. Transmission divergence is defined as the number of mutations separating whole genome sequences sampled from transmission pairs.Through simulation studies using two models, the outbreaker model and the phybreak model, the transmission divergence of ten major outbreak-causing pathogens was estimated. The results showed that transmission divergence was generally low, with many outbreaks characterized by large numbers of genetically identical transmission pairs. Rapidly evolving pathogens such as RNA viruses had higher transmission divergence than bacterial pathogens, but even they had limited genetic diversity between transmission pairs. The impact of transmission divergence on the ability to reconstruct outbreaks using the R packages outbreaker and phybreak was demonstrated. Genetic sequence data of rapidly evolving pathogens provided valuable information on individual transmission events, while sequence data of pathogens with lower mean transmission divergence provided little to no information.The findings highlight the informational limitations of genetic sequence data in certain outbreak scenarios and demonstrate the need to expand the toolkit of outbreak reconstruction tools to integrate other types of epidemiological data. The results also suggest that the analysis of WGS alone will struggle to reconstruct transmission trees accurately for a large number of pathogens, particularly bacterial ones. Integrating other types of outbreak data, such as locations of patients, community structure, or contact tracing data, represents a promising alternative strategy for outbreak reconstruction.
 This study aimed to identify immune profiles associated with the clinical outcome of subsequent DENV infection by analyzing cytokine production in response to DENV stimulation using PBMC collected prior to infection. The analysis revealed that stimulation of PBMC with all four types of DENV induced the production of cytokines, nine of which significantly differed according to the clinical outcome of DENV infection. Six cytokines/chemokines were more highly produced in PBMC of subjects who had subclinical infections, and three cytokines/chemokines were elevated in PBMC of subjects with symptomatic infections. Notable findings included higher production of IL-12, IL-2R, MIP-1α, RANTES, GM-CSF, and TNFα in PBMC of subjects with subclinical infections, while IL-6, IL-15, and MCP-1 were more highly produced in PBMC of subjects with symptomatic infections. These findings suggest that profiles of "protective" or "pathologic" cytokines might contribute to an individual having a subsequent subclinical or clinically apparent secondary DENV infection. However, limitations of the study include measuring cytokine levels at a single time point post-stimulation, using a single representative virus strain for each DENV type, and not identifying the cell types responsible for cytokine production. Future studies will attempt to address these limitations and clarify the immunological pathways responsible for the observed differences in cytokine production.
