 'Mesenchymal stem and stromal cells ( MSCs ) are important for maintaining homeostasis and regeneration in the lungs. We investigated the role of lung-resident ( LR ) MSCs during virus-induced lung injury using the highly prevalent respiratory syncytial virus ( RSV ). We found that RSV infection activates LR-MSCs, resulting in an expansion of the pulmonary MSC pool and a global transcriptional response that follows RSV disease. These findings suggest that LR-MSCs may play a role in virus-mediated acute lung injury and may have therapeutic implications.'
 'Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a serious parasitic disease that affects the spleen, liver, and bone marrow. It is endemic in South Sudan, where it is caused by the protozoan Leishmania donovani parasite and transmitted by phlebotomine sandflies. Pregnant women are considered particularly vulnerable for developing complications of VL disease, including opportunistic infections and anaemia. There is limited evidence available about clinical aspects and treatment outcomes of VL in pregnancy. We describe characteristics, maternal and pregnancy outcomes from a cohort of pregnant women with VL. We conducted a retrospective analysis using routine programme data from a MSF health facility in Lankien, Jonglei State, South Sudan, between Oct 2014 and April 2018. Records were extracted of women diagnosed with VL while pregnant, and those symptomatic during pregnancy but diagnosed during the first two weeks postpartum. Records were matched with a random sample of non-pregnant women of reproductive age (15–45 years) with VL from the same period. We included 113 women with VL in pregnancy and 223 non-pregnant women with VL. Women with VL in pregnancy presented with more severe anaemia, were more likely to need blood transfusion, and were more often prescribed antibiotics, as compared to non-pregnant women with VL. Adverse pregnancy outcomes, including miscarriage and premature delivery, were reported in 20% (16/81) where VL was diagnosed in pregnancy, and 50% (13/26) where VL was diagnosed postpartum. Postpartum haemorrhage was common. Pregnant women were more likely to require extension of treatment to achieve cure, as compared to non-pregnant women with VL. Nevertheless, overall initial cure rates were high (96.5%) and mortality was low (1.8%) in this cohort of pregnant women with VL. Our data suggest that good maternal survival rates are possible in resource-limited settings, despite the high incidence of complications.
 'Salmonella enterica subspecies enterica serovar Typhi ( S . Typhi ) is a major cause of typhoid fever, a systemic febrile illness that can be fatal if left untreated. The emergence of multidrug-resistant ( MDR ) strains of S . Typhi poses a challenge in treatment and control of the disease in endemic regions. To understand the evolutionary history and antimicrobial resistance patterns of S . Typhi strains in Kibera, an urban informal settlement in Nairobi, Kenya, we sequenced genomes of invasive Salmonella isolates obtained from ongoing surveillance in Kibera over a 12-year period. Our results show that S . Typhi in Kibera belong to four whole-genome multi-locus sequence typing ( wgMLST ) clades, one of which is frequently associated with MDR genes. This poses a challenge in treatment and control of the disease in Kibera. Our study highlights the importance of monitoring circulating strains of S . Typhi for early detection of antimicrobial resistance patterns to guide on selection of effective antibiotics for patient management.'
 'SARS-CoV-2 is the third known emergence of a coronavirus (CoV) with the ability to cause substantial human morbidity and mortality. Although vaccines are available, too few have been administered worldwide to keep the virus in check and to prevent mutations leading to immune escape. To determine if antibodies could be identified with universal coronavirus activity, plasma from convalescent subjects was screened for IgG against a stabilized pre-fusion SARS-CoV-2 spike S2 domain, which is highly conserved between human β-coronavirus. From these subjects, several S2-specific human monoclonal antibodies (hmAbs) were developed that neutralized SARS-CoV-2 with recognition of all variants of concern (VoC) tested (Beta, Gamma, Delta, Epsilon, and Omicron). The hmAb 1249A8 emerged as the most potent and broad hmAb, able to recognize all human β-coronavirus and neutralize SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV. 1249A8 demonstrated significant prophylactic activity in K18 hACE2 mice infected with SARS-CoV-2 lineage A and lineage B Beta, and Omicron VoC. 1249A8 delivered as a single 4 mg/kg intranasal (i.n.) dose 12 hours following infection with SARS-CoV-2 Delta protected hamsters from weight loss, with therapeutic activity further enhanced when combined with 1213H7, an S1-specific neutralizing hmAb. As little as 2 mg/kg of 1249A8 i.n. dose 12 hours following infection with SARS-CoV Urbani strain protected hamsters from weight loss and significantly reduced upper and lower respiratory viral burden. These results indicate in vivo cooperativity between S1 and S2 specific neutralizing hmAbs and that potent universal coronavirus neutralizing mAbs with therapeutic potential can be induced in humans and can guide universal coronavirus vaccine development.'
 'Metabolic gene clusters ( MGCs ) are composed of co-localized genes whose products participate in the same metabolic pathway. In most cases, their functions are linked to the production of secondary metabolites or the assimilation of unconventional substrates. In general, MGCs encode the enzymes catalyzing reactions in a biochemical pathway, membrane transporters for substrates or metabolites, as well as transcription factors that control the expression of corresponding genes. Gene clustering thus generates functional genetic modules whose co-regulated expression facilitates rapid adaptation of cellular metabolism to environmental changes. In this study, we determined the chromosome level assembly of the C . parapsilosis strain CLIB214 and used it for transcriptomic and proteomic investigation of cells cultivated on hydroxyaromatic substrates. We demonstrated that the genes coding for enzymes and plasma membrane transporters involved in the 3-oxoadipate and gentisate pathways are highly upregulated and their expression is controlled in a substrate-specific manner. However, regulatory proteins involved in this process are not known. Using the knockout mutants, we showed that putative transcriptional factors encoded by the genes Otf1p and Gtf1p located within these gene clusters function as transcriptional activators of the 3-oxoadipate and gentisate pathway, respectively. We also propose that bicarbonate ions resulting from decarboxylation of hydroxybenzoates also contribute to differences in the cell responses to hydroxybenzoates and hydroxybenzenes. Finally, our phylogenetic analysis highlights evolutionary paths leading to metabolic adaptations of yeast cells assimilating hydroxyaromatic substrates.'
The paper presents a new method called "oracle-supervised Neural Engineering Framework" (osNEF) that trains biologically-detailed spiking neural networks to perform various cognitive tasks. The method uses an "oracle" network that supervises the learning process and can be plugged with different biologically-detailed neuron models. The paper demonstrates the versatility of osNEF by training networks to perform different cognitive tasks such as addition, multiplication, harmonic oscillation, and gated working memory. The paper also shows that osNEF can accommodate different neuron models and can be used to build a biologically-detailed model of working memory that performs a delayed response task using a combination of pyramidal cells and inhibitory interneurons connected with NMDA and GABA synapses. The model exhibits baseline performance of 95% and exponential forgetting with time constant τ = 8.5s, which is consistent with animal data from delayed match-to-sample tasks. The paper concludes that osNEF can train functional brain models using biologically-detailed components and open new avenues for investigating the relationship between biophysical mechanisms and functional capabilities.
'Down syndrome (DS) is a genetic disorder caused by the complete or partial trisomy of human chromosome 21 (HSA21). The trisomy does not simply result in the upregulation of HSA21-encoded genes but also leads to a genome-wide transcriptomic deregulation. We performed a meta-analysis integrating the differential expression (DE) analyses of all publicly available transcriptomic datasets, both in human and mouse, comparing trisomic and euploid transcriptomes from different sources. We integrated all these data in a “DS network” and found that genome-wide deregulation as a consequence of trisomy 21 is not arbitrary but involves deregulation of specific molecular cascades in which both HSA21 genes and HSA21 interactors are more consistently deregulated compared to other genes. In fact, gene deregulation happens in “clusters” so that groups from 2 to 13 genes are found consistently deregulated. Most of these events of “co-deregulation” involve genes belonging to the same GO category and genes associated with the same disease class. The most consistent changes are enriched in interferon related categories and neutrophil activation, reinforcing the concept that DS is an inflammatory disease. Our results also suggest that the impact of the trisomy might diverge in each tissue due to the different gene set deregulation, even though the triplicated genes are the same. We created “metaDEA” an R package that uses our method to integrate every kind of transcriptomic data and therefore could be used with other complex disorders. We also created a user-friendly web application to query Ensembl gene IDs and retrieve all the information of their differential expression across the datasets.'
 'Ongoing oscillations and evoked responses are two main types of neuronal activity that have been studied separately. However, there is evidence that they might be closely related. One possibility is that neuronal oscillations have non-zero mean, which predicts that stimulus- or task-triggered amplitude modulation of oscillations can contribute to the generation of evoked responses. In this study, we validated this mechanism using computational modelling and analysis of a large EEG data set. With a biophysical model, we demonstrated that intracellular currents in the neuron are asymmetric and, consequently, the mean of alpha oscillations is non-zero. To understand the effect that neuronal currents exert on oscillatory mean, we varied several biophysical and morphological properties of neurons in the network, such as voltage-gated channel densities, length of dendrites, and intensity of incoming stimuli. For a very large range of model parameters, we observed evidence for non-zero mean of oscillations. Complimentary, we analyzed empirical rest EEG recordings of 90 participants (50 young, 40 elderly) and, with spatio-spectral decomposition, detected at least one spatially-filtred oscillatory component of non-zero mean alpha oscillations in 93% of participants. In order to explain a complex relationship between the dynamics of amplitude-envelope and corresponding baseline shifts, we performed additional simulations with simple oscillators coupled with different time delays. We demonstrated that the extent of spatial synchronization may obscure macroscopic estimation of alpha rhythm modulation while leaving baseline shifts unchanged. Overall, our results predict that amplitude modulation of neural oscillations should at least partially explain the generation of evoked responses. Therefore, inference about changes in evoked responses with respect to cognitive conditions, age, or neuropathologies should be constructed while taking into account oscillatory neuronal dynamics.'
 'Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever virus ( CCHFV ) is a tick-borne virus that causes a hemorrhagic fever in humans with a case fatality rate of up to 40% . CCHFV has been reported in Africa, Asia, and southern Europe, and recently in Spain due to the expanding range of its vector . We used RNA-Seq in two human liver cell lines infected with CCHFV to examine kinetic changes in host expression and viral replication simultaneously at 1 and 3 days post infection. Through this, numerous host pathways were identified that were modulated by the virus including antiviral response and endothelial cell leakage. Notably, the genes encoding DDX60 and OAS2 were both shown to be dysregulated. Additionally, we performed whole-genome sequencing on CCHFV to assess viral diversity over time and its relationship to the host response. As a result, we have demonstrated that through next-generation mRNA deep-sequencing it is possible to not only examine mRNA gene expression but also to examine viral quasispecies and typing of the infecting strain. This demonstrates a proof-of-principle that CCHFV specimens can be analyzed to identify both the virus and host biomarkers that may have implications for prognosis.'
 'Working memory ( WM ) deficits are widely documented in schizophrenia ( SZ ) and are often attributed to decreased capacity as compared to healthy control ( HC ) subjects. However, recent developments in WM research suggest that other components, such as precision, also mediate behavioral performance. It remains unclear how different WM components jointly contribute to deficits in schizophrenia. In this study, we measured the performance of 60 SZ and 61 HC in a classical delay-estimation visual working memory ( VWM ) task and evaluated several influential computational models proposed in basic science of VWM to disentangle the effect of various memory components. We show that the model assuming variable precision ( VP ) across items and trials is the best model to explain the performance of both groups. According to the VP model, SZ exhibited abnormally larger variability of allocating memory resources rather than resources or capacity per se. Finally, individual differences in the resource allocation variability predicted variation of symptom severity in SZ, highlighting its functional relevance to schizophrenic pathology. Our findings provide an alternative view instead of the widely accepted decreased-capacity theory and highlight the key role of elevated resource allocation variability in generating atypical VWM behavior in schizophrenia. Our findings also shed new light on the utility of Bayesian observer models to characterize mechanisms of mental deficits in clinical neuroscience.'
 ' HIV-1 is a highly infectious virus that causes AIDS. The HIV-1 envelope (Env) is composed of two subunits, gp120 and gp41, which are responsible for binding to the CD4 receptor and facilitating viral entry into cells, respectively. In this study, the authors identified a primary HIV-1 Env variant that exhibited increased infectivity in the presence of autologous or heterologous HIV-positive plasma. However, in the absence of HIV-positive plasma, this Env variant exhibited reduced infectivity. The authors mapped this phenotype to a change in the gp41 heptad repeat 1 (HR1) region, Q563R. They demonstrated that Q563R disrupts formation of the gp41 six-helix bundle required for virus-cell membrane fusion. Intriguingly, antibodies that bind cluster I epitopes on gp41 overcome this inhibitory effect, restoring infectivity to wild-type levels. The authors further demonstrated that the Q563R change increases HIV-1 sensitivity to broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNAbs) targeting the gp41 membrane-proximal external region (MPER). In summary, the authors identified an HIV-1 Env variant with impaired infectivity whose Env functionality is restored through the binding of host antibodies. These data contribute to our understanding of gp41 residues involved in membrane fusion and identify a mechanism by which host factors can alleviate a viral defect.'
 'The development of methods for the identification of consensus molecular subtypes of cancer is essential for cancer research. However, the lack of intuitive and easy-to-use analytical tools has posed a barrier. Here, we report on the development of the COnsensus Molecular SUbtype of Cancer (COMSUC) web server, which allows users to explore consensus molecular subtypes of more than 30 cancers based on eight clustering methods, five types of omics data from public reference datasets or users’ private data, and three consensus clustering methods. The web server provides interactive and modifiable visualization and publishable output of analysis results. Researchers can also exchange consensus subtype results with collaborators via project IDs. COMSUC is now publicly and freely available with no login requirement at http://comsuc.bioinforai.tech/. For a video summary of this web server, see S1 Video and S1 File.'
 'Ticks are a diverse group of ectoparasitic blood-feeding organisms that are widely distributed around the world. One such species, the seabird tick (Ixodes uriae), is found in both the northern and southern hemispheres. To determine whether viruses associated with ticks exhibit the same evolutionary patterns as their hosts, the authors collected Ix . uriae specimens from seabirds in Antarctica and migratory birds in Sweden. Through meta-transcriptomic next-generation sequencing, they identified 16 RNA viruses, seven of which were novel. Notably, they detected the same species, Ronne virus, and two closely related species, Bonden virus and Piguzov virus, in both hemispheres, indicating that there have been at least two cross-circumpolar dispersal events. The authors suggest that migratory birds are responsible for the movement of viruses at both local and global scales. Their phylogenetic analysis revealed no movement of the Ix . uriae tick hosts between the same locations. Combined, these data suggest that viruses are more mobile than their hosts and that migratory birds play a key role in the dispersal of viruses at both local and global scales.'
 'Meiotic recombination is a vital biological process that ensures accurate chromosome segregation and promotes genetic diversity. Tetrad analysis is a powerful approach to study meiotic recombination by examining the genetic makeup and recombination landscape of meiotic products. Here, we present RecombineX, a generalized computational framework that automates the full workflow of marker identification, gamete genotyping, and tetrad-based recombination profiling based on any organism or genetic background with batch processing capability. RecombineX can also perform analysis based on parental genome assemblies, which facilitates analyzing meiotic recombination landscapes in their native genomic contexts. Additional features such as copy number variation profiling and missing genotype inference further enhance downstream analysis. RecombineX also includes a dedicated module for simulating the genomes and reads of recombinant tetrads, which enables fine-tuned simulation-based hypothesis testing. Our re-analysis of the budding yeast tetrad sequencing data with RecombineX and Oxford Nanopore sequencing revealed two unusual structural rearrangement events that were not noticed before, which exemplify the occasional genome instability triggered by meiosis. RecombineX is a powerful tool for future tetrad analysis and can be used to study meiotic recombination and its modulators at fine scales.'
 'The APOBEC3 (A3) genes encode cytidine deaminase proteins with potent antiviral and anti-retroelement activity. In order to test whether superior restriction factors could be created by genetically linking single A3 domains into synthetic double domains, we linked A3C and A3H single domains in novel combinations. We found that A3C/A3H double domains acquired enhanced antiviral activity that is at least as potent, if not better than, A3G. Although these synthetic double domain A3s package into budding virions more efficiently than their respective single domains, this does not fully explain their gain of antiviral potency. The antiviral activity is conferred both by cytidine-deaminase dependent and independent mechanisms, with the latter correlating to an increase in RNA binding affinity. T cell lines expressing this A3C-A3H super restriction factor are able to control replicating HIV-1ΔVif infection to similar levels as A3G. Together, these data show that novel combinations of A3 domains are capable of gaining potent antiviral activity to levels similar to the most potent genome-encoded A3s, via a primarily non-catalytic mechanism.'
 'Cancer is a disease characterized by unrelenting tissue growth and clonal evolution. During evolution, genetic and epigenetic aberrations provide the reservoir for dysfunctional cellular phenotypes that maintain a tumour’s replicative advantage, while, over time, fluctuating physiological and ecological properties within the tumour microenvironment drive the need for updated adaptations that sustain immortality. The complex interplay between mutation accumulation and microenvironmental changes leads to a high degree of both cellular and genetic heterogeneity and, by proxy, composite subclonal structure in tumours. The desire to better understand the evolutionary and subclonal dynamics in growing tumour populations has become a major task for cancer genomics—with goals of forecasting tumour progression, developing adaptive evolutionary therapies, and deconvoluting the genetic architecture that drives adaptation. However, a significant hurdle in understanding cancer evolution in vivo are the clinical constraints surrounding serial sequencing, through space or time. For this reason, tumour biopsies are primarily sequenced in bulk from a single site and at a single time point. Although multi-region and single-cell data are becoming increasingly utilized, single time point, bulk sequenced biopsies still represent the major accessible data source for precision genomics guided treatment. Given this limitation, a reasonable strategy for inferring evolution in single tumor biopsies has been to utilize theoretical population genetics to capture signatures of selection from the variant allele frequency (VAF) distribution. The premise being that fitness-altering mutations will deterministically change in frequency over time, leading to characteristic and quantifiable deviations in the VAF distribution relative to some neutral evolutionary scenario. VAF-based methods have been employed to differentiate between positive selection and neutral evolution, to examine growth patterns, to quantify subclonal fitness and time subclonal emergence, and to build population genetics informed mixture models that account for neutral dynamics, that shape, to some extent, all tumour populations. With that said, existing VAF-based methods used to infer cancer evolution, although mechanistic and useful, have apparent limitations. For example, single statistics are maximally compressive and cannot infer complex information, approximate Bayesian computation methods suffer from the curse of dimensionality and can be prohibitively slow due to a rate-limiting simulation step required for each sample, and mixture models, used to identify subclonal populations, are only implicitly connected to an underlying model of evolution and, until recently, have been built under incorrect assumptions that have led to systematic overestimation in the number of subclonal populations in sequenced tumours. To address these limitations, we contribute a proof-of-principle synthetic supervised deep learning approach, TumE, for quantifying and classifying the evolutionary and subclonal dynamics in bulk sequenced tumour biopsies using purity-corrected variant allele frequency (VAF) information from diploid genomic regions. By generating synthetic VAF distributions, as a proxy for evolutionary ground truth, from plausible simulations of tumour evolution, we were able to build inference models that accurately classify and quantify evolutionary (e.g., positive selection versus neutral evolution) and subclonal dynamics (e.g., subclone frequency) in real patient tumours while capturing uncertainty in our estimates, via a form of approximate Bayesian inference called Monte Carlo dropout. Importantly, our method further highlights the power of utilizing deep learning for inference—namely exploiting stored knowledge via transfer learning. By recycling our models for new evolutionary prediction tasks, we reduce the computational burden associated with the generation of synthetic or simulated data. We validated our synthetic supervised learning approach in millions of synthetic tumours and applied TumE to 88 copy-number and purity corrected whole-genome (WGS) and whole-exome (WES) sequenced tumour biopsies. Our results show that TumE significantly improves both accuracy and inference time per sample when detecting positive selection, deconvoluting selected subclonal populations, and estimating subclone frequency. Importantly, our approach can be extended to other evolutionary and subclonal inference tasks, and our results provide a foundation and future directions for harnessing progressive computational methods for the benefit of cancer genomics and, in turn, the cancer patient.'
 'This study investigates the diversity and distribution of African trypanosomes in two areas of Chad, an endemic country for human and animal African trypanosomiasis (HAT/AAT). The study found that in addition to the known pathogenic species, there are diverse trypanosome species in humans and cattle that could be zoonotic. The study also found that tsetse control activities in Mandoul reduced the tsetse population and thus the pathogenic parasites. However, in Maro, where tsetse control had not started, high diversity and frequency of trypanosomes were observed, including HAT/AAT pathogenic species. The study highlights the need for monitoring and control campaigns to prevent the spread of HAT/AAT and the zoonotic potential of diverse trypanosome species.'
 'Schistosoma haematobium and S. bovis are two closely related species of parasitic flatworms that cause important public health and veterinary issues. In particular, hybrids between S. haematobium and S. bovis associated with humans and animals respectively are frequently identified in Africa. Recent genomic evidence indicates that some S. haematobium populations show signatures of genomic introgression from S. bovis. Here, we conducted a genomic comparative study and investigated the genomic relationships between S. haematobium, S. bovis and their hybrids using 19 isolates originating from a wide geographical range over Africa, including samples initially classified as S. haematobium, S. bovis and S. haematobium-bovis hybrids. Based on a whole genomic sequencing approach, we developed 56,181 SNPs that allowed a clear differentiation of S. bovis isolates from a genomic cluster including all S. haematobium isolates and a natural S. haematobium-bovis hybrid. All the isolates from the S. haematobium cluster except the isolate from Madagascar harbored signatures of genomic introgression from S. bovis. Isolates from Corsica, Mali and Egypt harbored the S. bovis-like Invadolysin gene, an introgressed tract that has been previously detected in some introgressed S. haematobium populations from Niger. Together our results highlight the fact that introgression from S. bovis is widespread across S. haematobium and that the observed introgression is unidirectional. Our findings also suggest that hybrid vigor may be adaptive in some S. haematobium populations and that this may have contributed to the establishment of urogenital transmission outside of its typical endemic zones.'
 'HIV vaccines have not been successful in clinical trials. Dimeric IgA ( dIgA ) in the form of secretory IgA is the most abundant antibody class in mucosal tissues, making dIgA a prime candidate for potential HIV vaccines. We coupled Positron Emission Tomography ( PET ) imaging and fluorescent microscopy of 64Cu-labeled , photoactivatable-GFP HIV ( PA-GFP-BaL ) and fluorescently labeled dIgA to determine how dIgA antibodies influence virus interaction with mucosal barriers and viral penetration in colorectal tissue. Our results show that HIV virions rapidly disseminate throughout the colon two hours after exposure. The presence of dIgA resulted in an increase in virions and penetration depth in the transverse colon. Moreover, virions were found in the mesenteric lymph nodes two hours after viral exposure, and the presence of dIgA led to an increase in virions in mesenteric lymph nodes. Taken together, these technologies enable in vivo and in situ visualization of antibody-virus interactions and detailed investigations of early events in HIV infection.'
 'Iliski' is a software package designed to compute Transfer Functions (TFs) between two signals. TFs are used to model the relationships between biological processes and can be computed using deconvolution or optimization algorithms. Iliski includes different pre-treatment routines and TF computation processes, such as deconvolution, deterministic and non-deterministic optimization algorithms. The software is available under the open-source license CC BY 4.0 on GitHub and can be used on most operating systems. Iliski is a useful tool for researchers in various fields, including neuroscience, engineering, and physics, who want to model and understand the relationships between complex and intermingled biological signals.
 'Zika virus is a mosquito-borne virus that can cause birth defects in babies born to mothers who contract the virus before or during pregnancy. This qualitative evidence synthesis aims to understand the values and preferences of pregnant women, mothers, families, health care workers, and service providers concerning infant feeding in the presence of Congenital Zika Syndrome (CZS) or severe disability and nonprogressive, chronic encephalopathies that present with similar problems. The authors conducted a qualitative evidence synthesis of the values and preferences of relevant stakeholders concerning infant feeding options (breastfeeding, use of breastmilk substitutes or mixed feeding with both breastmilk and breastmilk substitutes) when there are feeding difficulties in infants and toddlers with severe disability and nonprogressive, chronic encephalopathy as a result of conditions other than CZS. The authors found that breastfeeding was the preferred option for all mothers in the studies in both reviews, and the inability to do so affected bonding between parents and child, and generated fear and anxiety relating to feeding choices, especially around the risks of choking and swallowing. The authors also found that health professionals were often unable to offer appropriate advice, and that there was a strong desire to achieve individual maternal autonomy in infant feeding decisions. The evidence base has limitations, but consistently reported that parents of children with feeding difficulties due to CZS or similar need information, advice, and counselling, and substantial emotional support. Parents perceive that these needs are often neither recognised nor satisfied; optimal feeding and support strategies for this population have not yet been identified. The authors conclude that the WHO guidance on breastfeeding in the context of Zika virus should be updated to include the values and preferences of pregnant women, mothers, families, health care workers, and service providers concerning infant feeding options when there are feeding difficulties in infants and toddlers with severe disability and nonprogressive, chronic encephalopathy as a result of conditions other than CZS.'
 'Two-component, self-assembling nanoparticles represent a versatile platform for multivalent presentation of viral antigens. Computational design of protein nanoparticles with differing sizes and geometries enables combination with antigens of choice to test novel multimerization concepts in immunization strategies. Here, we describe detailed antigenic, structural, and functional characterization of computationally designed tetrahedral, octahedral, and icosahedral nanoparticle immunogens displaying trimeric HIV envelope glycoprotein (Env) ectodomains. Env trimers, based on subtype A (BG505) or consensus group M (ConM) sequences and engineered with SOSIP stabilizing mutations, were fused to an underlying trimeric building block of each nanoparticle. Initial screening yielded one icosahedral and two tetrahedral nanoparticle candidates, capable of presenting twenty or four copies of the Env trimer. A number of analyses, including detailed structural characterization by cryo-EM, demonstrated that the nanoparticle immunogens possessed the intended structural and antigenic properties. When the immunogenicity of ConM-SOSIP trimers presented on a two-component tetrahedral nanoparticle or as soluble proteins were compared in rabbits, the two immunogens elicited similar serum antibody binding titers against the trimer component. Neutralizing antibody titers were slightly elevated in the animals given the nanoparticle immunogen and were initially more focused to the trimer apex. Altogether, our findings indicate that tetrahedral nanoparticles can be successfully applied for presentation of HIV Env trimer immunogens; however, the optimal implementation to different immunization strategies remains to be determined.'
 'Pseudorabies virus ( PRV ) is a highly contagious virus that causes devastating disease in swine and can also infect humans. PRV has evolved various immune evasion mechanisms that target host antiviral immune responses. However, it is unclear whether and how PRV encoded proteins modulate the cGAS-STING axis for immune evasion. In this study, we show that PRV tegument protein UL13 inhibits STING-mediated antiviral signaling via regulation of STING stability. Mechanistically, UL13 interacts with the CDN domain of STING and recruits the E3 ligase RING-finger protein 5 ( RNF5 ) to promote K27-/K29-linked ubiquitination and degradation of STING. Consequently, deficiency of RNF5 enhances host antiviral immune responses triggered by PRV infection. In addition, mutant PRV lacking UL13 impaired in antagonism of STING-mediated production of type I IFNs and shows attenuated pathogenicity in mice. Our findings suggest that PRV UL13 functions as an antagonist of IFN signaling via a novel mechanism by targeting STING to persistently evade host antiviral responses.'
 'Arboviruses are transmitted by arthropods and replicate in a wide range of temperatures. Temperature affects vector competence, extrinsic incubation period, and mosquito survival. We determined how constant and fluctuating extrinsic incubation temperatures control Zika virus ( ZIKV ) vector competence and population dynamics within Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus mosquitoes. We found that vector competence varied in a unimodal manner for constant temperatures peaking between 28°C and 32°C for both Aedes species. Transmission peaked at 10 days post-infection for Aedes aegypti and 14 days for Aedes albopictus. Fluctuating temperature decreased vector competence. Using RNA-seq to characterize ZIKV population structure, we identified that temperature alters the selective environment in unexpected ways. During mosquito infection, constant temperatures more often elicited positive selection whereas fluctuating temperatures led to strong purifying selection in both Aedes species. These findings demonstrate that temperature has multiple impacts on ZIKV biology, including major effects on the selective environment within mosquitoes.'
2-nonanone is a strong repellent that signals danger to C. elegans, while IAA is an attractive odorant that signals food. In this study, the authors found that the presence of 2-nonanone blocks the attraction of IAA, and that this effect is mediated by the sensory neurons AWB and ASH. The authors also identified three genes, osm-5, osm-1, and dyf-7, that are required for this effect. These findings provide insight into the neural circuits that regulate olfactory integration in C. elegans.
 'Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease caused by the Schistosoma mansoni worm. The current treatment for schistosomiasis is praziquantel, but it has limitations. Vaccines are a promising alternative to treatment, but the development of effective vaccines has been challenging. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are protein-loaded nano-scaled particles that are released by eukaryotes and prokaryotes. Parasite EVs have been shown to manipulate the immune system, making them a potential next-generation vaccine. In this study, EVs were isolated from cultured S. mansoni eggs using a progressive sequential cooling ultra-centrifugation technique. The protein content of the EVs was quantified using Lowry's technique. Mice were subcutaneously immunized with three doses of 20 μg EVs (with or without alum adjuvant). Six weeks post-infection, mice were sacrificed for vaccine candidate assessment. The results showed significant reduction of tegumentally deranged adult worms, hepatic and intestinal egg counts, and amelioration of sizes, numbers, and histopathology of hepatic granulomata mediated by high interferon gamma (IFN γ) and antibody level. The molecular weight of EVs’ protein components targeted by the antibody produced was recognized by western immunoblot. The study highlights the role of S. mansoni-egg derived EVs as a potential vaccine candidate against murine schistosomiasis mansoni.'
 'Mycetoma is a rare, chronic, and disabling disease caused by fungi or bacteria that affects the subcutaneous tissue. The disease is endemic in the "Mycetoma Belt," which stretches between the latitudes of 15° South and 30° North. The causative agents are mostly present in the soil and are introduced into the subcutaneous tissue by traumatic injury. The foot is the most involved part of the body. Diagnosis of mycetoma is challenging and tedious, involving many differential diagnoses. The majority of cases are reported from Sudan, India, and Mexico. In Uganda, data on the burden of mycetoma and its associated complications are limited. This study aimed to retrospectively estimate the burden of mycetoma in Uganda by reviewing biopsy reports at the Pathology reference laboratory, Makerere University, and published literature on mycetoma in Uganda. The average incidence was estimated at 0.32/100,000 persons and prevalence of 8.32/100,000 persons per decade. The highest number of cases was recorded from Kampala and Jinja districts. The majority of the cases (68%) were referred from surgical units. The foot was the most affected part of the body (72%). Ten percent of the cases had bone involvement, of which 58% required amputation. Fungi were the most common causative agents (89%), followed by Nocardia species (5%) and Actinomycetes (4%). The index of clinical suspicion of mycetoma was low (45%), with a very large differential diagnosis. Mycetoma is a relatively rare disease in Uganda, mostly caused by fungi, and there is a big gap in data and epidemiological studies. More systematic studies are warranted to define the true burden of mycetoma in Uganda.'
 'Malaria is a vector-borne disease caused by Plasmodium parasites. In Malaysia, the burden of clinical malaria is predominantly due to infection by P. knowlesi, a malaria parasite of macaques. This study is a systematic review of the prevalence of Plasmodium species in macaques in Malaysia over the past 20 years. The study identified seven simian malaria epidemiology studies in Malaysia over the 20-year study period. The most prevalent Plasmodium species in macaques was P. inui and the least prevalent was P. fieldi. The prevalence of simian malaria was higher in East Malaysia compared to Peninsular Malaysia. The mono, dual, and triple infection types were the most common among macaques. The study highlights the importance of host epidemiology in public health management as there is a high occurrence of simian malaria in Malaysia. The right measurement can be taken as well to prevent the transmission of simian malaria from macaques to humans.'
 'A new study has identified a SUMO-interacting motif (SIM) in the EBNA1 protein of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), which is required for EBNA1-mediated viral episome maintenance and lytic gene silencing. The SIM motif is also involved in the SUMO2 modification of EBNA1, which is required for the dissociation of EBNA1 with SUMO2-modified STUB1, KAP1, and USP7 to increase the SUMO1 modification of both STUB1 and KAP1 for reactivation of lytic replication. The study provides a potential therapeutic specific target against EBV-associated cancers.'
 'Wheat is a staple crop for global food security. Improving our understanding of the genes regulating grain yield can contribute to the development of more productive wheat varieties. In this study, we identified the gene WHEAT ORTHOLOG OF APO1 ( WAPO1 ) as the causal gene for a significant QTL affecting spikelet number per spike ( SNS ) on chromosome arm 7AL. We used mutants and transgenic plants to demonstrate that WAPO1 affects SNS by regulating the timing of terminal spikelet formation. We also found that WAPO1 is expressed at significantly lower levels in the developing spikes of the H1 haplotype, which is associated with reduced SNS. Our results suggest that the H2 haplotype, which is already present in most modern common wheat varieties, might be particularly useful to improve grain yield in durum wheat. The WAPO1 gene is also associated with floral abnormalities, which could be useful for breeding new varieties with improved agronomic traits.'
 'Scrub typhus is a vector-borne zoonosis caused by Orientia spp. and transmitted by larvae of trombiculid mites, called chiggers. It mainly occurs within a region of the Asia-Pacific called the tsutsugamushi triangle, where rodents are known as the most relevant hosts for the trombiculid vector. However, the reservoir and vector of the scrub typhus outside Asia-Pacific are unknown. The disease has recently been discovered on and is considered endemic for Chiloé Island in southern Chile. The aim of the present work was to detect and determine the prevalence of chiggers on different rodent species captured in probable sites for the transmission of orientiae responsible for scrub typhus on Chiloé Island in southern Chile and to molecularly examine collected chiggers for the presence of Orientia DNA. During the austral summer 2018, rodents were live-trapped in six sites and examined for chigger infestation. All study sites were rural areas on Chiloé Island, previously identified as probable localities where human cases acquired the scrub typhus. During a total of 4,713 trap-nights, 244 rodents of seven species were captured: the most abundant was Abrothrix olivacea. Chiggers were detected on all seven rodent species with a 55% prevalence rate. Chiggers showed low host specificity and varied according to site specific host abundance. Three genera of trombiculids were identified. Herpetacarus was the most abundant genus (93%) and prevalent in five of the six sites. Infestation rates showed site specific differences, which were statistically significant using a GLM model with binomial errors. Molecular analyses proved that 21 of 133 (15.8%) mite pools were positive for Orientia species, all of them belonged to the genus Herpetacarus. This study firstly reports the presence of different rodent-associated chigger mites positive for Orientia sp., in a region endemic for scrub typhus in southern Chile. Herpetacarus and two other genera of mites were found with high infestation rates of rodents in sites previously identified as probable exposure of scrub typhus cases. A substantial percentage of mite pools were positive for Orientia DNA, suggesting that chigger mites serve as vectors and reservoirs of this emerging zoonosis in South America.'
 'During the 2015–2017 Zika epidemic, dengue and chikungunya were also in circulation, making it difficult to differentially diagnose them. Our aim was to quantify the potential extent of misdiagnosis during this epidemic. Using basic principles of probability and empirical estimates of diagnostic sensitivity and specificity, we generated revised estimates of reported cases of Zika that accounted for the accuracy of diagnoses made on the basis of clinical presentation with or without laboratory confirmation. Our results imply that misdiagnosis was more common in countries with proportionally higher reported cases of dengue and chikungunya, such as Brazil. Our methodology has the potential to enhance the interpretation of passive surveillance data for these diseases going forward.'
 'Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is a DNA virus that replicates its genome via reverse transcription of a pregenomic (pg) RNA intermediate in hepatocytes. Interestingly, HBV RNA can be detected in virus-like particles in chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patient serum and has been utilized as a biomarker for intrahepatic cccDNA activity in treated patients. However, the biogenesis and molecular characteristics of serum HBV RNA remain to be fully defined. In this study, we found that the encapsidated serum HBV RNA predominately consists of pgRNA, which are detergent- and ribonuclease-resistant. Through blocking HBV DNA replication without affecting pgRNA encapsidation by using the priming-defective HBV mutant Y63D or 3TC treatment, we demonstrated that the cell culture supernatant contains a large amount of pgRNA-containing nonenveloped capsids and a minor population of pgRNA-containing virions. The formation of pgRNA-virion requires both capsid assembly and viral envelope proteins, which can be inhibited by capsid assembly modulators and an envelope–knockout mutant, respectively. Furthermore, the pgRNA-virion utilizes the multivesicular body pathway for egress, in a similar way as DNA-virion morphogenesis. Northern blotting, RT-PCR, and 3’ RACE assays revealed that serum/supernatant HBV pgRNA are mainly spliced and devoid of the 3’-terminal sequences. Furthermore, pgRNA-virion collected from cells treated with a reversible HBV priming inhibitor L-FMAU was unable to establish infection in HepG2-NTCP cells. In summary, serum HBV RNA is secreted in noninfectious virion-like particle as spliced and poly (A) -free pgRNA. Our study will shed light on the molecular biology of serum HBV RNA in HBV life cycle, and aid the development of serum HBV RNA as a novel biomarker for CHB diagnosis and treatment prognosis.'
 'Tuberculosis (TB) is a major public health concern, exacerbated by the emergence of drug-resistant TB. To combat the host’s dynamic environment, Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) encodes multiple DNA repair enzymes. We investigated the biological impact of deleting uracil DNA glycosylases (UDGs) encoded by ung and udgB in Mtb. We generated gene replacement mutants of UDGs, individually (RvΔung, RvΔudgB) or together (RvΔdKO). The double KO mutant exhibited remarkably higher spontaneous mutation rate in the presence of antibiotics. Interestingly, RvΔdKO showed higher survival rates in guinea pigs and accumulated large number of SNPs as revealed by whole-genome sequence analysis. Competition assays revealed the superior fitness of RvΔdKO over Rv, both in ex vivo and in vivo conditions. We propose that compromised DNA repair results in the accumulation of mutations, and a subset of these drives adaptation in the host. Importantly, this property allowed us to utilize RvΔdKO for the facile identification of drug targets. Our findings suggest that compromised DNA repair is a mechanism employed by Mtb to adapt to the host environment and acquire drug resistance.'
 'The suprachiasmatic nucleus ( SCN ) is a biological clock that regulates the circadian rhythms of many organisms. The SCN is composed of a large number of clock cells that are heterogeneous in their circadian periods. Despite this heterogeneity, the SCN maintains a high degree of phase coherence, which is essential for the proper functioning of the circadian system. The phase coherence is thought to be achieved through cell-to-cell coupling mechanisms, including action potential ( AP )-mediated connectivity. However, little is known about the morphology of the AP-mediated connectivity at a cellular scale. In this study, the authors explored a large pool of network morphologies to identify plausible network features of the SCN. They found that the cells in the core region of the SCN have a much larger total degree than those in the shell region, and that the number of intra-core edges is about 7 times that of intra-shell edges. These findings provide a useful guide for future explorations on the AP-mediated clock cell connectome within the SCN.'
 'The lexical categorization model ( LCM ) is a new approach to understanding how the brain processes words during reading. The LCM assumes that the brain optimizes linguistic processing by allowing fast meaning access when words are familiar and filtering out orthographic strings without meaning. The LCM successfully simulates benchmark results from functional brain imaging described in the literature. In a second evaluation, we empirically demonstrate that quantitative LCM simulations predict lvOT activation better than alternative models across three functional magnetic resonance imaging studies. We found that word-likeness, assumed as input into a lexical categorization process, is represented posteriorly to lvOT, whereas a dichotomous word/non-word output of the LCM could be localized to the downstream frontal brain regions. Finally, training the process of lexical categorization resulted in more efficient reading. In sum, we propose that word recognition in the ventral visual stream involves word-likeness extraction followed by lexical categorization before one can access word meaning.'
 'The circadian clock is a biological system that regulates the timing of various physiological processes in living organisms. Shift work, which involves working during the night and sleeping during the day, can disrupt the circadian clock and lead to health problems. In this study, researchers used mathematical modeling to study the effects of shift work on the circadian clock and the immune system. They found that shift work can lead to a weakened immune system, and that the effects of shift work are different in males and females. The researchers also identified key clock genes that are involved in the immune response and how they are affected by shift work. Their findings could help in the development of new treatments for shift work-related health problems.'
 'This study estimated the cost of illness (COI) of dengue fever in Saudi Arabia from 2013 to 2017. The COI was estimated by applying a predictive model to national data, which included all declared cases recorded in referral centers in the western region, the endemic region of the country. Direct costs, due to care-related expenditures, were estimated by applying the predictive equation to national data. Indirect costs, which are due to productivity loss, were estimated using the human capital model based on gross domestic product adjusted for invalidity duration. Under-reporting was adjusted by using an expansion factor EF = 3. The total estimated costs for the five years were US$551 million for a total 15,369 patients, resulting in an average cost of US$11,947.6 by patient. Depending on the year, productivity years loss costs accounted for 63.3% to 83.8% of the estimated total costs. Dengue has a substantial local economic burden that costs US$110.2 million per year, stressing the urgent need for an effective national prevention strategy to perform considerable cost-savings besides reducing morbidity.'
 'Lipid droplets (LDs) are the major form of fat storage in cells and are composed of neutral lipids such as triacylglycerides and sterol esters. LDs are surrounded by a surface monolayer of polar phospholipids and can grow by fusing with other LDs. LDs can be found in the cytoplasm adjacent to the outer nuclear membrane, which is continuous with ER membranes. Nuclear lipid droplets (nLDs) have been observed in multiple cells and tissues, including in human patients with fatty liver disease. The function of nLDs is not known, but they may provide lipid for the growth of nuclear membranes, store normal proteins or unfolded, hydrophobic proteins, or detoxify hydrophobic substances. In this study, the authors show that nLDs occur normally in C. elegans intestinal cells and germ cells, but appear to be associated with damage only in the intestine. Lipid droplets in intestinal nuclei can be associated with novel bundles of microfilaments (nuclear actin) and membrane tubules that might have roles in damage repair. To increase the normal, low frequency of nuclear lipid droplets in wild-type animals, the authors used a forward genetic screen to isolate mutants with abnormally large or abundant nuclear lipid droplets. Genetic analysis and cloning of three such mutants showed that the genes encode the lipid regulator seipin, the inner nuclear membrane protein NEMP-1/Nemp1/TMEM194A, and a component of COPI vesicles called COPA-1/α-COP. The authors present several lines of evidence that the nuclear lipid droplet phenotype of copa-1 mutants results from a defect in retrieving mislocalized membrane proteins that normally reside in the endoplasmic reticulum. The seip-1 mutant causes most germ cells to have nuclear lipid droplets, the largest of which occupy more than a third of the nuclear volume. Nevertheless, the nuclear lipid droplets do not trigger apoptosis, and the germ cells differentiate into gametes that produce viable, healthy progeny. Thus, the authors' results suggest that nuclear lipid droplets are detrimental to intestinal nuclei, but have no obvious deleterious effect on germ nuclei.'
 'Streptococcus pneumoniae ( pneumococcus ) is a leading cause of bacterial meningitis and many survivors develop neurological sequelae after the acute infection has resolved . Here, we studied mechanisms for pneumococcal interactions with neurons . Using human primary neurons, pull-down experiments and mass spectrometry, we show that pneumococci interact with the cytoskeleton protein β-actin through the pilus-1 adhesin RrgA and the cytotoxin pneumolysin ( Ply ) , thereby promoting adhesion and invasion of neurons , and neuronal death . Using our bacteremia-derived meningitis mouse model, we observe that RrgA- and Ply-expressing pneumococci co-localize with neuronal β-actin . Using purified proteins, we show that Ply , through its cholesterol-binding domain 4 , interacts with the neuronal plasma membrane , thereby increasing the exposure on the outer surface of β-actin filaments , leading to more β-actin binding sites available for RrgA binding , and thus enhanced pneumococcal interactions with neurons . Pneumococcal infection promotes neuronal death possibly due to increased intracellular Ca2+ levels depending on presence of Ply , as well as on actin cytoskeleton disassembly . STED super-resolution microscopy showed disruption of β-actin filaments in neurons infected with pneumococci expressing RrgA and Ply . Finally , neuronal death caused by pneumococcal infection could be inhibited using antibodies against β-actin . The generated data potentially helps explaining mechanisms for why pneumococci frequently cause neurological sequelae .'
 'In this study, we investigated the brain-transcriptomic changes during a fight between two male Betta splendens fish. We found that the two opponents in each fighting pair showed a strong gene expression correlation after a 60-minute fight, whereas those in a 20-minute fight showed a weak correlation. Moreover, each fighting pair in the 60-minute group showed pair-specific gene expression patterns in a grade of membership analysis ( GoM ) and were grouped as a pair in the heatmap clustering. The observed pair-specific individualization in brain-transcriptomic synchronization ( PIBS ) suggested that this synchronization provides a physiological basis for the behavioral synchronization. An analysis using the synchronized genes in fighting pairs of the 60-minute group found genes enriched for ion transport, synaptic function, and learning and memory. Our findings suggest that brain-transcriptomic synchronization could be a general phenomenon and may provide a new cornerstone with which to investigate coordinating and sustaining social interactions between two interacting partners of vertebrates.'
 'Mosquito-borne viruses are a major public health concern, causing unpredictable outbreaks of disease. Recently, several unassigned viruses isolated from mosquitoes were identified as totivirus-like viruses, with features similar to those of the Totiviridae family. In this study, we identified a new strain of OmRV, a totivirus-like virus, and determined high-resolution structures for this virus using single-particle cryo-electron microscopy. The structures feature an unexpected protrusion at the five-fold vertex of the capsid. Disassociation of the protrusion could result in several conformational changes in the major capsid protein. All these structures, together with some biological results, suggest the protrusions’ associations with the extracellular transmission of OmRV. Our findings provide new insights into the poorly understood protrusion structure and extracellular transmission mechanism of totivirus-like viruses.'
 'Ric-8B is a highly conserved protein that interacts with Gαs class subunits from heterotrimeric G proteins. In vitro, Ric-8B can work as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for both Gαs and Gαolf. In vivo, Ric-8B is predominantly expressed in the same tissues where Gαolf is expressed, indicating that these two proteins are functional partners. Previous studies have shown that complete knockout of the Ric-8B gene results in mice that are not viable and that die early during embryogenesis. Here, we show that Ric-8B mutant embryos are small, fail to close the neural tube at the cephalic region, and die around E10.5. In the embryo, Ric-8B gene expression is predominant in the nervous system, more specifically in the neural folds in the cephalic region and in the ventral region of the neural tube. Increased apoptosis is observed in the region of the neural tube defects in the Ric-8B mutant embryos. Comparative transcriptome analysis unexpectedly revealed that mTOR signaling is impaired in the Ric-8B mutant embryos. mTOR is a serine/threonine protein kinase that acts as the catalytic core of two distinct complexes: mTORC1 and mTORC2. mTORC2 has been implicated in the regulation of cytoskeletal organization, cell survival, and cell migration. We found that mTORC2 activity, but not mTORC1 activity, is downregulated in the mutant embryo. Similar effects were observed in HEK293T and HepG2 cells which were knocked down for Ric-8B. Our results show that Ric-8B is essential for embryogenesis and that depletion of Ric-8B reduces mTORC2 activity.'
 'Dengue fever is a common vector-borne disease that poses a significant threat to public health. The proposed ensemble forecast system for dengue fever is based on a susceptible-infected-recovered ( SIR ) type of compartmental model coupled with a data assimilation method called the ensemble adjusted Kalman filter ( EAKF ). The model was informed by meteorological and mosquito density information to depict the transmission of dengue virus among human and mosquito populations, and generate predictions. To account for the dramatic variations of outbreak size in different seasons, the effective population size parameter that is sequentially updated to adjust the predicted outbreak scale was introduced into the model. The proposed forecasting system can be operated in real-time and inform control planning to reduce the burden of dengue fever. The system was validated using retrospective forecasts of dengue outbreaks in Guangzhou during the 2011–2017 seasons, and generated accurate projections of peak timing, peak intensity, and total incidence, outperforming a generalized additive model approach. The proposed ensemble forecast system can be used to predict dengue fever outbreaks in other regions with similar characteristics.'
 'Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease that can cause nerve damage and skin lesions. The stigma associated with leprosy can have a major impact on the psychosocial wellbeing of persons affected and their family members. Resilience is a process that incorporates many of the core skills and abilities that may enable people to address stigma and discrimination. The current study aimed to develop and pilot an intervention to strengthen individual and family resilience against leprosy-related discrimination. The 10-week family-based intervention was designed to enhance protective abilities and capacity to overcome adversity. The study was conducted in two sites, urban areas in Telangana state and rural areas in Odisha state, India. Persons affected and their family members were included using purposive sampling. Two questionnaires were used pre- and post-intervention: the Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC) and the WHOQOL-BREF. In addition, semi-structured interviews were conducted post-intervention. Data were collected at baseline, a few weeks after completion of the intervention, and in the Odisha cohort again at six months after completion. The study found a significant increase in CD-RISC scores for persons affected and family members from Odisha state, this improvement was maintained at six-month follow-up. There was no increase in CD-RISC scores post-intervention among participants from Telangana state. WHOQOL-BREF scores were significantly higher at follow-up for persons affected in both states, and for family members in Odisha state. No families dropped out of the study. In the qualitative feedback, all participants described drawing benefit from the programme. Participants especially appreciated the social dimensions of the intervention. The pilot study showed that the 10-week family-based intervention to strengthen resilience among persons affected by leprosy and their family members was feasible and has the potential to improve resilience and quality of life. A large-scale efficacy trial is necessary to determine the effectiveness and long-term sustainability of the intervention.'
 'In budding yeast, the protein shugoshin (Sgo1) helps to ensure that sister chromatids are properly attached to the spindle during cell division. Sgo1 does this by recruiting the protein phosphatase PP2A-Rts1 and the condensin complex to centromeres. In this study, the authors used peptide prints to identify a specific region of Sgo1 that is important for its interaction with condensin. They then used mass spectrometry to determine which specific amino acids within this region are phosphorylated. They found that phosphorylation of these amino acids disrupts the interaction between Sgo1 and condensin. The authors also found that the central kinase Mps1 directly phosphorylates Sgo1 within this region to regulate the interaction between Sgo1 and condensin. These findings provide new insights into how Sgo1 helps to ensure proper chromosome segregation during cell division.'
 'Computational prediction tools are commonly used to identify T cell epitopes for applications such as vaccine design, cancer neoantigen identification, and development of diagnostics. However, the performance of these tools has not been comprehensively evaluated. In this study, we used a recently published dataset that systematically defined T cell epitopes recognized in vaccinia virus (VACV) infected C57BL/6 mice to evaluate the performance of all currently publicly available computational T cell epitope prediction tools. We found that all methods were able to improve epitope identification above random, with the best performance achieved by neural network-based predictions trained on both MHC binding and MHC ligand elution data. Impressively, these methods were able to capture more than half of the major epitopes in the top N = 277 predictions within the N = 767, 788 predictions made for distinct peptides of relevant lengths that can theoretically be encoded in the VACV proteome. These performance metrics provide guidance for immunologists as to which prediction methods to use and what success rates are possible for epitope predictions when considering a highly controlled system of administered immunizations to inbred mice. In addition, this benchmark was implemented in an open and easy to reproduce format, providing developers with a framework for future comparisons against new tools.'
 'This study aimed to investigate whether obesity-associated DNA methylation in blood is reflected in spermatozoa from obese males. We profiled genome-wide DNA methylation using the Infinium MethylationEPIC array in a cross-sectional study of matched human blood and sperm from lean ( discovery n = 47; replication n = 21 ) and obese ( n = 22 ) males to analyse tissue covariation of DNA methylation, and identify obesity-associated methylomic signatures. We found that DNA methylation signatures of human blood and spermatozoa are highly discordant, and methylation levels are correlated at only a minority of CpG sites ( ~1% ). At the majority of these sites, DNA methylation appears to be influenced by genetic variation. Obesity-associated DNA methylation in blood was not generally reflected in spermatozoa, and obesity was not associated with altered covariation patterns or accelerated epigenetic ageing in the two tissues. However, one cross-tissue obesity-specific hypermethylated site ( cg19357369; chr4:2429884; P = 8 . 95 × 10−8; 2% DNA methylation difference ) was identified, warranting replication and further investigation. When compared to a wide range of human somatic tissue samples, spermatozoa displayed differential DNA methylation across pathways enriched in transcriptional regulation. Overall, human sperm displays a unique DNA methylation profile that is highly discordant to, and practically uncorrelated with, that of matched peripheral blood. We observed that obesity was only nominally associated with differential DNA methylation in sperm, and therefore suggest that spermatozoal DNA methylation is an unlikely mediator of intergenerational effects of metabolic traits. '
 'Reovirus is a neurotropic virus that causes lethal encephalitis in newborn animals. To understand how reovirus enters and moves within neurons, researchers used primary neuron cultures and microfluidic devices. They found that reovirus enters neurons through macropinocytosis, a process that differs from clathrin-mediated endocytosis used by reovirus to enter non-neuronal cells. Reovirus moves retrograde but not anterograde in axons, and this movement is mediated by dynein. Reovirus particles are transported in non-acidic vesicles that acidify after reaching the soma, allowing disassembly and entry into the cytoplasm. These findings provide insights into how reovirus enters and moves within neurons, which may help in the development of interventions that block early steps in infection.'
 'Malaria is a major global health priority and the development of an effective vaccine against it has been prioritized. RTS, S/AS01 is the first and to date the only vaccine that has demonstrated significant reduction of clinical and severe malaria in endemic cohorts in Phase 3 trials. Although the vaccine is protective, efficacy declines over time with kinetics paralleling the decline in antibody responses to the Pf circumsporozoite protein ( PfCSP ). Although most attention has focused on antibodies to repeat motifs on PfCSP, antibodies to other regions may play a role in protection. Here, we expressed and characterized seven monoclonal antibodies to the C-terminal domain of CSP ( ctCSP ) from volunteers immunized with RTS, S/AS01. Competition and crystal structure studies indicated that the antibodies target two different sites on opposite faces of ctCSP. One site contains a polymorphic region ( denoted α-ctCSP ) and has been previously characterized, whereas the second is a previously undescribed site on the conserved β-sheet face of the ctCSP ( denoted β-ctCSP ). Antibodies to the β-ctCSP site exhibited broad reactivity with a diverse panel of ctCSP peptides whose sequences were derived from field isolates of P . falciparum whereas antibodies to the α-ctCSP site showed very limited cross reactivity. Importantly, an antibody to the β-site demonstrated inhibition activity against malaria infection in a murine model. This study identifies a previously unidentified conserved epitope on CSP that could be targeted by prophylactic antibodies and exploited in structure-based vaccine design.'
 'Lysine malonylation is a type of protein modification that regulates many cellular processes. However, little is known about the differences in lysine malonylation between different strains of Toxoplasma gondii, a parasite that causes toxoplasmosis in humans and animals. In this study, we used liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and immuno-affinity purification to investigate the differences in lysine malonylation between three strains of Toxoplasma gondii with different virulence in mice. We found that there are significant differences in lysine malonylation between the three strains, with many proteins being differentially malonylated. These proteins are involved in key processes such as protein metabolism, stress response, glycolysis, and actin cytoskeleton. Our results suggest that lysine malonylation plays an important role in the virulence of Toxoplasma gondii and may be a potential target for future therapeutic interventions.'
 'Nematodes are multicellular organisms that exhibit diverse and complex physiological behaviors . Nematode nAChRs are targeted by the cholinergic anthelmintic drugs . Here we describe a novel nicotinic acetylcholine receptor on the nematode pharynx that is a potential new drug target . This homomeric receptor is comprised of five non-Î± EAT-2 subunits and is not sensitive to existing cholinomimetic anthelmintics . We found that EAT-18 , a novel auxiliary subunit protein , is essential for functional expression of the receptor . EAT-18 directly interacts with the mature receptor , and different homologs alter the pharmacological properties . Thus we have described not only a novel potential drug target but also a new type of obligate auxiliary protein for nAChRs .'
 'HIV-1 infects CD4 T lymphocytes ( CD4TL ) through binding the chemokine receptors CCR5 or CXCR4 . CXCR4-using viruses are considered more pathogenic , linked to accelerated depletion of CD4TL and progression to AIDS . However , counterexamples to this paradigm are common , suggesting heterogeneity in the virulence of CXCR4-using viruses . Here , we investigated the role of the CXCR4 chemokine CXCL12 as a driving force behind virus virulence . In vitro , CXCL12 prevents HIV-1 from binding CXCR4 and entering CD4TL , but its role in HIV-1 transmission and propagation remains speculative . Through analysis of thirty envelope glycoproteins ( Envs ) from patients at different stages of infection , mostly treatment-naïve , we first interrogated whether sensitivity of viruses to inhibition by CXCL12 varies over time in infection . Results show that Envs resistant ( RES ) to CXCL12 are frequent in patients experiencing low CD4TL levels , most often late in infection , only rarely at the time of primary infection . Sensitivity assays to soluble CD4 or broadly neutralizing antibodies further showed that RES Envs adopt a more closed conformation with distinct antigenicity , compared to CXCL12-sensitive ( SENS ) Envs . At the level of the host cell , our results suggest that resistance is not due to improved fusion or binding to CD4 , but owes to viruses using particular CXCR4 molecules weakly accessible to CXCL12 . We finally asked whether the low CD4TL levels in patients are related to increased pathogenicity of RES viruses . Resistance actually provides viruses with an enhanced capacity to enter naive CD4TL when surrounded by CXCL12 , which mirrors their situation in lymphoid organs , and to deplete bystander activated effector memory cells . Therefore , RES viruses seem more likely to deregulate CD4TL homeostasis . This work improves our understanding of the pathophysiology and the transmission of HIV-1 and suggests that RES viruses’ receptors could represent new therapeutic targets to help prevent CD4TL depletion in HIV+ patients on cART .'
 'Zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis (ZCL) is a disease caused by parasites transmitted by sand flies. It is endemic in Palestine and is transmitted by Phlebotomus sand flies that inhabit dens of hyraxes, the reservoir animal. Control measures have been implemented since 1996 but cases still occur. We estimated the effect of insecticide thermal fogging inside hyrax dens on sand fly density and leishmania infection. We conducted a 12-week controlled interrupted time series study in two control and one intervention sites containing three hyrax dens each. We implemented Permethrin thermal fogging in the intervention site at week 6. We measured weekly and 36hrs post-intervention sand fly abundance inside dens using CDC light traps. We performed Next-Generation Sequencing to identify sand fly Leishmania spp. infection. We calculated the abundance reduction (AR) using Mulla’s formula and negative binomial regression. Phlebotomus spp. AR was 93% at 36hrs, 18% and 38% at two and five weeks respectively and 41% during the complete post-intervention period. In the regression models, Phlebotomus spp. density in the intervention site decreased by 74% (IRR: 0.26, 95%CI: 0.11–0.57) at two weeks, 34% (IRR: 0.66, 95%CI: 0.48–0.90) at five weeks and 74% (IRR: 0.26, 95%CI: 0.12–0.59) during the complete period. Leishmania infection prevalence in the intervention site was 14% pre-intervention and 3.9% post-intervention. Fogging hyrax dens reduced sand fly abundance and leishmania infection during the 5-week post-intervention period and especially the first two weeks, suggesting it could be an effective source-reduction measure for ZCL vectors. Future randomized controlled trials are needed to confirm the effectiveness of fogging hyrax dens on decreasing ZCL incidence.'
 'Foot-and-mouth disease virus ( FMDV ) is a highly contagious virus that affects cloven-hoofed animals, including cattle, pigs, and sheep. The 5′ untranslated region ( 5′ UTR ) of the FMDV genome is longer than that of other picornaviruses and contains multiple pseudoknots ( PKs ). The role of PKs in the FMDV life cycle is not fully understood. In this study, the authors used bioinformatics, sub-genomic replicons, and recombinant viruses to investigate the structural conservation and importance of PKs in the FMDV lifecycle. They found that despite the conservation of two or more PKs across all FMDVs, a replicon lacking PKs was replication competent, albeit at reduced levels. In competition experiments, GFP FMDV replicons with less than two PKs were outcompeted by a mCherry FMDV wt replicon that had 4 PKs, whereas GFP replicons with 2 or 4 PKs were not. This apparent replicative advantage offered by the additional PKs correlates with the maintenance of at least two PKs in the genomes of FMDV field isolates. The authors also found that viruses completely lacking PK were not viable and at least one PK was essential for recovery of infectious virus. These results suggest that PKs play a role in both vRNA replication and virion assembly, thereby improving our understanding of the molecular biology of FMDV replication and the wider roles of PK in RNA functions.'
 'A new study has assessed the palatability of two new orally disintegrating tablet ( ODT ) formulations of Praziquantel ( PZQ ) in children aged 6–11 years old . The study found that both ODT formulations were more palatable than the current standard formulation of PZQ . The study also found that there may be gender and age effects on the assessment of palatability . The new ODT formulations may help increase the uptake of medication among young-age populations and enable the inclusion of preschoolers in mass drug administration campaigns .'
 'Herpesviruses are a leading cause of human viral disease, second only to influenza and cold viruses. The herpesviridae family includes nine human pathogens and animal herpesviruses. Among these, HSV-1 and HSV-2 infections frequently reactivate to result in recurrent acute oral and genital lesions, as well as encephalitis. Varicella-zoster virus (VZV) can reactivate decades after the initial infection and may result in painful and debilitating recurrences of shingles. Infections with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and Kaposi’s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) are associated with oncogenic transformation. One of the most clinically challenging herpes infections is caused by human cytomegalovirus (CMV), a leading cause of birth defects and transplant failures. There are no effective drugs for CMV without significant toxicities, and resistance to existing anti-CMV drugs is widespread. Herpesvirus infections are lifelong, with latency periods between recurrent reactivations, making treatment difficult. Currently approved herpetic antiviral agents target and disrupt multiple aspects of the viral life cycle, except for DNA release into the cell nucleus. The novel mechanism of action (MOA) discovered in this work targets the pressurized genome state in a viral capsid, “turns off” capsid pressure, and blocks viral genome ejection into a cell nucleus, preventing viral replication. This work serves as a proof-of-concept to demonstrate the feasibility of a new antiviral target—suppressing pressure-driven viral genome ejection—that is likely impervious to developing drug resistance. This pivotal finding presents a platform for discovery of a new class of broad-spectrum treatments for herpesviruses and other viral infections with genome-pressure-dependent replication. A biophysical approach to antiviral treatment such as this is also a vital strategy to prevent the spread of emerging viruses where vaccine development is challenged by high mutation rates or other evasion mechanisms.'
 'This study aimed to evaluate the impact of nine rounds of Mass Drug Administration ( MDA ) on the transmission of diurnally sub-periodic Wuchereria bancrofti ( DspWB ) in Nicobar district, India. The study used molecular xenomonitoring ( MX ) to monitor the infection in the vector mosquito, Aedes niveus. The study found that despite nine rounds of MDA, the prevalence of DspWB infection in the vector mosquito was still above the transmission threshold level. The study also compared different mosquito sampling devices and found that BioGents Sentinel traps were the most productive for collecting Ae . niveus mosquitoes. The study recommends that MX could be used to evaluate the impact of MDA in this area after further standardization of the protocol.'
 'CREB-binding protein ( CBP ) is a key regulator of cellular functions such as proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. CBP is a transcriptional co-activator that acetylates transcription factors to regulate gene expression. In this study, we found that cellular USP12 interacts with the HAT domain of CBP and inhibits its acetyltransferase activity. We also found that USP12 positively regulates interferon ( IFN ) antiviral signaling independently of its deubiquitinase activity. Furthermore, we found that USP12 translocates from the cytoplasm to the nucleus during IFN signaling, which blocks CBP-induced acetylation of phosphorylated STAT1 ( p-STAT1 ) and therefore maintains nuclear p-STAT1 levels and IFN antiviral efficacy. Our study uncovers a cell-intrinsic regulation of CBP acetyltransferase activity and may provide potential strategies for IFN-based antiviral therapy.'
 'We report the identification of two orthobunyaviruses, Melao virus (MELV) and Oropouche virus (OROV), in plasma specimens from Haitian children with acute febrile illness who presented during outbreaks caused by alpha- and flaviviruses in 2014. Heretofore not described as a human pathogen, MELV was isolated in cell culture from the plasma of five case patients. OROV RNA was detected in the plasma of an additional child using an unbiased sequencing approach, with phylogenetic inference suggesting a close relationship with strains from Brazil. Abdominal pain was reported by four case patients with MELV infections, with lymphadenopathy noted in two cases. Our findings document the occurrence of these orthobunyaviruses within the Caribbean region and highlight the critical importance of surveillance with viral genome sequence analyses to identify outbreaks caused by these and other emerging viruses.'
 'The COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant global disruption and has led to the development of several vaccines. One promising approach is the use of DNA vaccines, which have been shown to be effective in previous studies. In this study, researchers developed a DNA vaccine for COVID-19 using the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2. The vaccine was delivered via electroporation, which increased its efficiency. The vaccine was found to induce neutralizing antibodies and a Th1-biased immune response in hamsters. The hamsters also exhibited protective immunity after being challenged with SARS-CoV-2. These results suggest that DNA vaccines could be a promising approach for preventing COVID-19.'
 'This study aimed to document health beliefs and health seeking behavior towards morbidity management and disability prevention ( MMDP ) services for lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) in Luangwa District, Zambia. The study found that community members had limited knowledge of MMDP services and believed that the chronic manifestations of LF were caused by contact with animal faeces, use of traditional herbal aphrodisiacs, witchcraft, and sexual contact with women who were menstruating or had miscarried. LF patients opted to visit traditional healers before going to health facilities. Hydrocele patients were afraid of hydrocelectomies as they were thought to cause infertility or death. Very few community members were able to identify any home and facility-based care strategies for lymphoedema. Health system and cultural barriers to seeking healthcare included long distances to the health facilities, lack of awareness of existing MMDP services, perceived costs of accessing MMDP services, gender and social norms, and fear of stigmatization. Health seeking behavior for LF in the district was mainly driven by negative beliefs about the causes of the disease and lack of awareness of available MMDP services and homecare strategies. The study recommends that LF programs should promote strategies that seek to empower patients and community members with the required information to access and use the MMDP services at the health facilities, as well as adhere to self-care practices in their households.'
 'The Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 ( HTLV-1 ) is a retrovirus that infects CD4+ T-cells and causes adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma ( ATL ) and a neurodegenerative disease called HAM/TSP. HTLV-1 is transmitted from person to person through cell-to-cell contact. The viral protein p8 is important for this cell-to-cell contact and for the transfer of HTLV-1 to target cells. In this study, the authors found that the protein vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein ( VASP ) is a novel interaction partner of p8 and important for p8 and HTLV-1 Gag transfer between cells. They also found that VASP is not only crucial for the transfer of p8 to target T-cells, but also of HTLV-1 Gag, suggesting that HTLV-1 cell-to-cell transmission depends on VASP. The authors conclude that interactions of p8 with VASP could contribute to viral spread and the establishment of persistent HTLV-1 infections.'
 'Tinnitus is a common form of auditory hallucinations that affects millions of people worldwide. It is often associated with hearing loss and can be caused by sensory deprivation. In this study, we used an objective-driven learning algorithm to model an early auditory processing neuronal network in the dorsal cochlear nucleus. We found that attenuation of peripheral inputs drives the recurrent network towards its critical point and transition into a tinnitus-like state. In this state, the network activity resembles responses to genuine inputs even in the absence of external stimulation, namely, it "hallucinates" auditory responses. These findings suggest that objective-driven plasticity mechanisms that normally act to optimize the network's input representation can also elicit pathologies such as tinnitus as a result of sensory deprivation.'
 'Porcine hemagglutinating encephalomyelitis virus ( PHEV ) is a highly neurotropic coronavirus that belongs to the genus Betacoronavirus . It is transmitted primarily through respiratory droplets and close contact, entering the central nervous system ( CNS ) from the peripheral nerves at the site of initial infection . In this study, we found that BALB/c mice are susceptible to intranasal PHEV infection and show distinct neurological manifestations. The behavioral study and histopathological examination revealed that PHEV attacks neurons in the CNS and causes significant smell and taste dysfunction in mice. By tracking neuroinvasion, we identified that PHEV invades the CNS via the olfactory nerve and trigeminal nerve located in the nasal cavity, and olfactory sensory neurons ( OSNs ) were susceptible to viral infection. Immunofluorescence staining and ultrastructural observations revealed that viral materials traveling along axons, suggesting axonal transport may engage in rapid viral transmission in the CNS. Moreover, viral replication in the olfactory system and CNS is associated with inflammatory and immune responses, tissue disorganization, and dysfunction. Overall, we proposed that PHEV may serve as a potential prototype for elucidating the pathogenesis of coronavirus-associated neurological complications and olfactory and taste disorders.'
20E, a steroid hormone, regulates glucose metabolism homeostasis during metamorphosis in cotton bollworms. KLF15, a transcription factor, is upregulated by 20E to promote autophagy and gluconeogenesis. KLF15 binds to KLF bs in the promoter of Atg8 to upregulate Atg8 expression for autophagy. KLF15 also binds to KLF bs in the promoter of Pepck for gluconeogenesis. Knockdown of KLF15 accumulates FFAs, glycerol, and FAAs, and switches glycolysis to gluconeogenesis. KLF15 plays an important role in the integration of autophagy and gluconeogenesis during metamorphosis.
 'The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic caused by the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus has emerged as the most challenging global health crisis within a century. Vaccination is the most promising strategy to end the pandemic. The primary vaccine target is the trimeric spike ( S ) protein on the envelope of SARS-CoV-2. To identify possible antibody binding sites, we performed multi-microsecond molecular dynamics simulations of a 4 . 1 million atom system containing a patch of viral membrane with four full-length, fully glycosylated and palmitoylated S proteins. By mapping steric accessibility, structural rigidity, sequence conservation, and generic antibody binding signatures, we recover known epitopes on S and reveal promising epitope candidates for structure-based vaccine design. We find that the extensive and inherently flexible glycan coat shields a surface area larger than expected from static structures, highlighting the importance of structural dynamics. Our computational epitope-mapping procedure is general and should thus prove useful for other viral envelope proteins whose structures have been characterized. Thanks to the extraordinary response of the global scientific community, we already have atomistic structures of S and detailed views of the viral envelope. However, static structures do not capture conformational changes of S or the motion of the highly dynamic glycans covering it. Molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulations add a dynamic picture of S and its glycan shield. Intriguingly, several groups have shown experimentally that glycans not only shield the S protein but also play a role in the infection mechanism. Here, we report on the 2 . 5 μs-long MD simulation of a full-length atomistic model of four S trimers in the prefusion conformation, amounting to 10 μs of S dynamics. The model includes the transmembrane domain ( TMD ) embedded in a complex lipid bilayer, along with realistic post-translational modification patterns, i.e., glycosylation of the ectodomain and palmitoylation of the TMD. Although independently developed, we have recently shown that our S protein model and its structural dynamics are in quantitative agreement with recent high-resolution electron cryo-tomography ( cryoET ) reconstructions. Intact virions present their S proteins either individually (i.e., with surrounding S proteins removed), in small groups, or in large clusters, in a strikingly random distribution. To quantify the effect of this heterogeneous distribution, we analyzed the accessibility of S epitopes both in isolation (i.e., with surrounding S proteins removed) and in the dense packing of our simulation model. We identify epitope candidates on SARS-CoV-2 S by combining information on steric accessibility and structural flexibility with bioinformatic assessments of sequence conservation and epitope characteristics. We recover known epitopes in the ACE2 receptor-binding domain ( RBD ) and identify several epitope candidates on the spike surface that are exposed, structured, and conserved in sequence. In particular, target sites for antibodies emerge in the functionally important S2 domain harboring the fusion machinery. Our findings provide a detailed understanding of the exposed viral surface and should contribute to the development of more effective vaccines and therapeutics.'
 'The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the importance of type I interferons ( IFNs ) in the fight against viral infections. IFNs are cytokines that play a crucial role in the innate immune response against viruses. In the Syrian hamster model of COVID-19, the administration of IFN-α was found to be beneficial when given one day before or one day after infection. However, when given three days after the onset of symptoms, IFN-α had no impact on the clinical course of the disease. These results suggest that early administration of IFN-α is more effective than late administration, and that IFN-α may not be associated with enhanced disease when given at later stages of infection. These findings provide important insights into the timing of IFN-α treatment for COVID-19 and may inform future clinical trials.'
 'Schistosomiasis is a snail-borne parasitic disease that affects millions of people worldwide. The disease is caused by blood trematodes of the genus Schistosoma and transmitted by freshwater snails belonging to the genera Biomphalaria and Bulinus. The identification of these snail species is crucial for the control of schistosomiasis. In this study, we evaluated the use of MALDI-TOF MS for the identification of both frozen and ethanol-stored snails. We found that MALDI-TOF MS is a reliable tool for the rapid identification of snails without any malacological expertise. Our results show that MALDI-TOF MS can be used to identify snails involved in schistosome transmission, which could facilitate the development of new effective control strategies for schistosomiasis.'
 'Food and water-borne illness caused by ingestion of ( oo ) cysts of Cryptosporidium and Giardia is a major health problem globally . Several methods are available to detect these parasites in food and water samples, but they are costly and require a good laboratory facility and well-trained manpower. We developed a smartphone-based microscopic assay method to screen ( oo ) cysts of Cryptosporidium and Giardia contamination of vegetable and water samples. The method consists of a ball lens of 1 mm diameter, white LED as illumination source, and Lugols's iodine staining, which provides magnification and contrast capable of distinguishing ( oo ) cysts of Cryptosporidium and Giardia. The analytical performance of the method was tested by spike recovery experiments. The spike recovery results are comparable with data obtained using commercial brightfield and fluorescence microscope methods. Finally, we tested the smartphone microscope system for detecting ( oo ) cysts on 7 types of vegetable ( n = 196 ) and river water ( n = 18 ) samples. Forty-two percent vegetable and thirty-nine percent water samples were found to be contaminated with Cryptosporidium oocyst. Similarly, thirty-one percent vegetable and thirty-three percent water samples were contaminated with Giardia cyst. The newly developed smartphone microscopic method showed comparable performance to commercial microscopic methods. The new method can be a low-cost and easy to implement alternative method for simultaneous detection of ( oo ) cysts in vegetable and water samples in resource limited settings.'
 'Echinococcosis is a zoonotic parasitic disease caused by larval stages of cestodes belonging to the genus Echinococcus . The infection affects people’s health and safety as well as agropastoral sector . In China , human echinococcosis is a major public health burden , especially in western China . Echinococcosis affects people health as well as agricultural and pastoral economy . Therefore , it is important to understand the prevalence status and spatial distribution of human echinococcosis in order to advance our knowledge of basic information for prevention and control measures reinforcement . Report data on echinococcosis were collected in 370 counties in China in 2018 and were used to assess prevalence and spatial distribution . SPSS 21 . 0 was used to obtain the prevalence rate for CE and AE . For statistical analyses and mapping , all data were processed using SPSS 21 . 0 and ArcGIS 10 . 4 , respectively . Chi-square test and Exact probability method were used to assess spatial autocorrelation and spatial clustering . A total of 47,278 cases of echinococcosis were recorded in 2018 in 370 endemic counties in China . The prevalence rate of human echinococcosis was 10.57 per 10,000 . Analysis of the disease prevalence showed obvious spatial positive autocorrelation in globle spatial autocorrelation with two aggregation modes in local spatial autocorrelation , namely high-high and low-high aggregation areas . The high-high gathering areas were mainly concentrated in northern Tibet , western Qinghai , and Ganzi in the Tibetan Autonomous Region and in Sichuan . The low-high clusters were concentrated in Gamba , Kangma and Yadong counties of Tibet . In addition , spatial scanning analysis revealed two spatial clusters . One type of spatial clusters included 71 counties in Tibet Autonomous Region , 22 counties in Qinghai , 11 counties in Sichuan , three counties in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region , two counties in Yunnan , and one county in Gansu . In the second category , six types of spatial clusters were observed in the counties of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region , and the Qinghai , Gansu , and Sichuan Provinces . This study showed a serious prevalence of human echinococcosis with obvious spatial aggregation of the disease prevalence in China . The Qinghai-Tibet Plateau is the "hot spot" area of human echinococcosis in China . Findings from this study indicate that there is an urgent need of joint strategies to strengthen efforts for the prevention and control of echinococcosis in China , especially in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau .'
 'Network-based intervention strategies can be effective and cost-efficient approaches to curtailing harmful contagions in myriad settings . However, these strategies are often impractical to implement as they typically assume complete knowledge of the network structure, which is unusual in practice. In this paper, we investigate how different immunization strategies perform under realistic conditions—where the strategies are informed by partially-observed network data. Our results suggest that global immunization strategies, like degree immunization, are optimal in most cases; the exception is at very high levels of missing data, where stochastic strategies, like acquaintance immunization, begin to outstrip them in minimizing outbreaks. Stochastic strategies are more robust in some cases due to the different ways in which they can be affected by missing data. In fact, one of our proposed variants of acquaintance immunization leverages a logistically-realistic ongoing survey-intervention process as a form of targeted data-recovery to improve with increasing levels of missing data. These results support the effectiveness of targeted immunization as a general practice. They also highlight the risks of considering networks as idealized mathematical objects: overestimating the accuracy of network data and foregoing the rewards of additional inquiry.'
 'Extracellular recording is a technique used to study the brain physiology and pathology. As the number of recording channels and their density increases, it is important to understand how much improvement the additional channels bring and how to optimally use the new capabilities for monitoring the brain. In this study, we show that for any given distribution of electrodes, we can establish exactly what information about current sources in the brain can be recovered and what information is strictly unobservable. We demonstrate this in the general setting of previously proposed kernel Current Source Density method and illustrate it with simplified examples as well as using evoked potentials from the barrel cortex obtained with a Neuropixels probe and with compatible model data. We show that with conceptual separation of the estimation space from experimental setup, one can recover sources not accessible to standard methods. Our findings provide a theoretical framework for understanding the limitations of extracellular recording and for developing new methods to overcome these limitations.'
 'This study aimed to investigate the interactions between four major species of human malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum ( Pf ) , P . vivax ( Pv ) , P . malariae ( Pm ) , and P . ovale sp . ( Po ) . The study used molecular diagnostics to detect asexual and gametocyte stages of each species in a unique epidemiological setting in Papua New Guinea. The results showed that Pf-Pv co-infection for asexual parasites was higher than expected from individual prevalence rates, and the observed frequency of co-infection with Pf and Pv gametocytes was also higher than expected. The excess risk of co-infection was 1.38 ( 95% confidence interval: 1.09, 1.67) for all parasites and 1.37 ( 95% confidence interval: 0.95, 1.79) for gametocytes. The study also found that Pm benefitted most from co-infection with other species. Beyond this, no general prevailing pattern of suppression or facilitation was identified in pairwise analysis of gametocytemia and parasitemia of the four species. The study highlights the importance of using molecular diagnostics to investigate the interactions between different Plasmodium species in humans.'
 'Effective and powerful survival mediation models are currently lacking . To partly fill such knowledge gap , we particularly focus on the mediation analysis that includes multiple DNA methylations acting as exposures , one gene expression as the mediator and one survival time as the outcome . We proposed IUSMMT ( intersection-union survival mixture-adjusted mediation test ) to effectively examine the existence of mediation effect by fitting an empirical three-component mixture null distribution . With extensive simulation studies , we demonstrated the advantage of IUSMMT over existing methods . We applied IUSMMT to ten TCGA cancers and identified multiple genes that exhibited mediating effects . We further revealed that most of the identified regions , in which genes behaved as active mediators , were cancer type-specific and exhibited a full mediation from DNA methylation CpG sites to the survival risk of various types of cancers . Overall , IUSMMT represents an effective and powerful alternative for survival mediation analysis; our results also provide new insights into the functional role of DNA methylation and gene expression in cancer progression/prognosis and demonstrate potential therapeutic targets for future clinical practice .'
 'Developmental plasticity is the ability of an organism to change its phenotype in response to environmental cues. This phenomenon is important for adapting to changing environments and for the evolution of new traits. The nematode Pristionchus pacificus is a good model for studying developmental plasticity because it can develop two different mouth forms, one for predatory feeding and one for microbial feeding. In this study, the authors used a forward genetic screen to identify genes that regulate mouth-form development. They found that the nuclear hormone receptor NHR-1 is a second transcription factor that controls mouth-form development, in addition to the previously identified NHR-40. The authors also found that NHR-1 and NHR-40 share transcriptional targets that are expressed in the same pharyngeal gland cell. This gland cell has undergone extreme morphological remodeling in nematode evolution, which is associated with the emergence of teeth and predatory feeding. The authors conclude that their findings enhance the understanding of the genetic basis of developmental plasticity and link morphological innovations with rapid gene evolution.'
 'Mitochondria are vital organelles inside the cell and contribute to intracellular calcium ( Ca2+ ) dynamics directly and indirectly via calcium exchange , ATP generation , and production of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) . Arrhythmogenic Ca2+ alternans in cardiac myocytes has been observed in experiments under abnormal mitochondrial depolarization . However , complex signaling pathways and Ca2+ cycling between mitochondria and cytosol make it difficult in experiments to reveal the underlying mechanisms of Ca2+ alternans under abnormal mitochondrial depolarization . In this study , we use a newly developed spatiotemporal ventricular myocyte computer model that integrates mitochondrial Ca2+ cycling and complex signaling pathways to investigate the mechanisms of Ca2+ alternans during mitochondrial depolarization . We find that elevation of ROS in response to mitochondrial depolarization plays a critical role in promoting Ca2+ alternans . Further examination reveals that the redox effect of ROS on ryanodine receptors and sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase synergistically promote alternans . Upregulation of mitochondrial Ca2+ uniporter promotes Ca2+ alternans via Ca2+-dependent mitochondrial permeability transition pore opening . Due to their relatively slow kinetics , oxidized Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II activation and ATP do not play significant roles acutely in the genesis of Ca2+ alternans after mitochondrial depolarization , but their roles can be significant in the long term , mainly through their effects on sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase activity . In conclusion , mitochondrial depolarization promotes Ca2+ alternans acutely via the redox effect of ROS and chronically by ATP reduction . It suppresses Ca2+ alternans chronically through oxidized Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II activation .'
 'Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome ( HFRS ) is a zoonosis caused by Hantaviruses and characterized by high fever, hemorrhage, and renal damage. China has the largest number of HFRS cases worldwide. In this study, we used surveyed HFRS data and satellite imagery to conduct geostatistical analysis for investigating the associations of rapid urbanization, water bodies, and other factors on the spatiotemporal dynamics of HFRS from year 2005 to 2018 in Xi’an City, Northwest China. We found that rapid urbanization was associated with the HFRS incidence in two different time phases. HFRS caused by urbanization influences farmers to a lesser extent than it does to non-farmers. The association of water bodies with the HFRS incidence rate was higher within the radii of 696 . 15 m and 1575 . 39 m, which represented significant thresholds. The results also showed that geomatics approaches can be used for spatiotemporally investigating the HFRS dynamic characteristics and supporting effective allocations of resources to formulate strategies for preventing epidemics.'
 'Helicobacter pylori is a bacterium that chronically infects the stomach of about half of the world's population. The infection can lead to various diseases, including gastric cancer. The study analyzed the genetic diversity of H. pylori isolates from a single individual collected at two time points and from multiple gastric sites. The study found that the isolates from the second time point had undergone significant genetic changes, including mutations and recombination events. The study also found that the isolates from the second time point had different phenotypes, including the ability to induce inflammatory cytokines and morphology. The study suggests that the genetic and phenotypic changes in H. pylori during chronic infection are driven by complex selective forces and multiple niches within the stomach. The study highlights the importance of understanding the genetic and phenotypic diversity of H. pylori during chronic infection to better understand its pathogenesis and develop effective treatments.'
 'Soil-transmitted helminths ( STH ) cause significant morbidity in children and women of reproductive age . The World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommends preventive chemotherapy ( PC ) of at-risk populations with anthelminthics to control these infections . Historically , STH are very intensively transmitted in Pemba Island ( Zanzibar ) . A survey conducted in 2011 estimated a prevalence of STH of 89%; after this survey, PC was regularly administered until 2018. We conducted a survey in 2021 using the same method as that used in 2011. The prevalence of STH was evaluated at 80% ( 95% CI 78 . 1–81 . 5 ) and most of the STH cases were due to Trichuris trichiura . More than 32% ( 95% CI 30 . 3–34 . 0 ) of the children investigated had infections of moderate or heavy intensity . PC has been conducted for over 25 years in Pemba Island. However, despite its beneficial impact, both the prevalence and the intensity of STH infections remain high, and the intervention has been insufficient in controlling STH morbidity. This is probably due to a combination of irregular PC, climatic conditions favorable to STH transmission, the low sensitivity of T . trichiura to benzimidazoles, high population density, and poor sanitation. Improvement of sanitation coverage remains a key measure to permanently reduce the prevalence and intensity of STH. Possible changes to the present PC approaches to better control STH in Pemba would be ( i ) to assure high coverage in all schools, ( ii ) to use mebendazole instead of albendazole given its better activity on T . trichiura, and ( iii ) to use a combination of ivermectin and mebendazole to further increase anthelminthic efficacy on T . trichiura.'
 'Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) is a mosquito-borne virus that has caused millions of infections worldwide. CHIKV enters cells primarily via clathrin-mediated endocytosis, where it is transported to early endosomes for fusion. In this study, we found that the microtubule network is important for efficient CHIKV infection. We observed two distinct patterns of CHIKV intracellular trafficking during cell entry: half of the particles showed fast-directed movement prior to arrival to early endosomes and membrane hemifusion, while the other half did not show fast-directed movement. Disruption of the microtubule network abolished the fast-directed movement of CHIKV particles during cell entry, influenced the localization of membrane hemifusion, and impaired efficient viral genome delivery to the cell cytosol. Our findings suggest that trafficking along microtubules increases the chance of infection.'
 'In this study, we investigated the role of c-di-AMP, a second messenger essential for growth of many bacteria, in Bacillus subtilis. We found that c-di-AMP is essential for growth on complex medium and that glutamate is toxic to a c-di-AMP-free strain. We isolated suppressor mutants that allowed growth of the c-di-AMP-free strain under these conditions. Characterization of these mutants revealed that they contained pairs of mutations affecting glutamate and potassium homeostasis. Among these mutations, several independent mutations affected a novel glutamate transporter, AimA. We also found that some suppressor mutants could suppress glutamate toxicity by a combination of mutations affecting phospholipid biosynthesis and a gain-of-function mutation of a mechanosensitive channel of small conductance. Cultivation of the c-di-AMP-free strain on complex medium was an even greater challenge because the amounts of potassium, glutamate, and other osmolytes are substantially higher than in minimal medium. Suppressor mutants viable on complex medium could only be isolated under anaerobic conditions if one of the two c-di-AMP receptor proteins, DarA or DarB, was absent. Also on complex medium, potassium and osmolyte toxicity are the major bottlenecks for the growth of B. subtilis in the absence of c-di-AMP. Our results indicate that the essentiality of c-di-AMP in B. subtilis is caused by the global impact of the second messenger nucleotide on different aspects of cellular physiology. '
 'Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) is a common human virus that causes lymphomas and epithelial cell cancers . By learning how EBV breaches barriers to cell proliferation , we hope to undermine those strategies to treat EBV lymphomas and potentially other cancers . We had previously found that EBV , through activation of cellular STAT3 prevents phosphorylation of Chk1 , and thereby , suppresses activation of the intra-S phase cell-cycle checkpoint , a potent barrier to oncogene-driven proliferation . This observation prompted us to examine the consequences on DNA repair since homologous recombination repair , the most error-free form , requires phosphoChk1 . We now report that the defect in Chk1 phosphorylation also curtails RAD51 nucleation , and thereby , homologous recombination repair of DNA double strand breaks . The resulting reliance on error-prone microhomology-mediated end-joining ( MMEJ ) makes EBV-transformed cells susceptible to PARP inhibition and simultaneously accrual of genome-wide deletions and insertions resulting from synthesis-dependent MMEJ . Analysis of transcriptomic and drug susceptibility data from hundreds of cancer lines reveals a STAT3-dependent gene-set predictive of susceptibility of cancers to synthetic lethal PARP inhibition . These findings i ) demonstrate how the tumor virus EBV re-shapes cellular DNA repair , ii ) provide the first genome-wide evidence for insertions resulting from MMEJ in human cells , and iii ) expand the range of cancers ( EBV-related and -unrelated ) that are likely to respond to synthetic lethal inhibitors given the high prevalence of cancers with constitutively active STAT3 .'
 'Buruli ulcer is a debilitating disease caused by an environmental mycobacterium, M . ulcerans . It is endemic in tropical, subtropical and temperate regions worldwide, with the majority of cases occurring in West and Central Africa. Early diagnosis and treatment are crucial to minimizing morbidity, costs and preventing long-term disability. The gold standard biological confirmation is the quantitative PCR targeting the insertion sequence IS2404 of M . ulcerans performed on cutaneous samples. However, the low PCR confirmation rate in endemic African countries has hindered the implementation of adequate prevention for the population. To address this issue, 11 laboratories in 9 endemic countries formed the network “BU-LABNET” in 2019. The first step of the network was to harmonize the procedures and ship specific reagents to each laboratory. With this system in place, implementation of these procedures for testing and follow-up was easy and the laboratories were able to carry out their first quality control with a very high success rate. The network has now integrated other neglected tropical diseases, such as yaws or leprosy, and aims to improve the quality of BU diagnosis in African countries.'
 'The Cluster-of-Differentiation-44 protein ( CD44 ) is a versatile molecule that plays a role in a variety of cellular processes, including inflammation, hematopoiesis, cell migration, and cancer invasiveness. CD44 is a transmembrane protein that can be modified by palmitoylation and the presence of phosphatidylinositol-4 , 5-biphosphate ( PIP2 ) lipids. In this study, we performed extensive molecular dynamics simulations to study the raft affinity and translocation of CD44 in phase separated model membranes as well as more realistic plasma membrane environments. We observe a delicate balance between the influence of the palmitoylations and the presence of PIP2 lipids: whereas the palmitoylations of CD44 increases the affinity for raft domains, PIP2 lipids have the opposite effect. Additionally, we studied the association between CD44 and the membrane adaptor FERM in dependence of these factors. We find that the presence of PIP2 lipids allows CD44 and FERM to associate in an experimentally observed binding mode whereas the highly palmitoylated species shows no binding affinity. Together, our results shed light on the sophisticated mechanism on how membrane translocation and peripheral protein association can be controlled by both protein modifications and membrane composition.'
 'Fire ants ( Solenopsis invicta ) are social insects that form floating rafts when submerged in water. These rafts are made up of a monolayer of interconnected worker ants that contract and expand in response to environmental cues. In this study, we developed an agent-based numerical model to simulate the behavior of fire ants in rafts. Our model captures the local interactions between ants and the contraction of the structural layer. We found that our model can spontaneously generate protrusions in the rafts, which grow outwards in response to the activity of the freely active ants. We also found that the model can oscillate between periods of outwards expansion and contraction in response to changes in the activity of the freely active ants. Our results provide insights into the mechanisms underlying the formation and dynamics of fire ant rafts, and suggest that similar mechanisms may be at play in other systems of self-organized living matter.'
 'This study aimed to investigate the differences in olfactory gene expression between two subspecies of Culex pipiens, Cx. quinquefasciatus and Cx. molestus. The authors sequenced the transcriptomes of the antennae of both subspecies and identified differentially expressed olfactory genes. They then validated the results using quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis. Finally, they injected dsRNA of selected differentially expressed olfactory genes into female adult mosquitoes to investigate their role in blood-feeding behavior. The study identified several candidate genes that may be involved in blood-feeding behavior and could be used as targets for screening effective repellent compounds to control mosquito-borne diseases. The authors suggest that their findings could provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the differences in blood-feeding behavior between the two subspecies.'
 'Place cells are a type of neuron found in the hippocampus that fire action potentials when an animal is in a specific location within its environment. These cells are thought to play a role in spatial memory formation and navigation. The formation and stabilization of place fields, the spatial tuning of place cells, is a complex process that is not fully understood. In this study, the authors develop a computational model of the hippocampal CA1 network that accounts for the formation and stabilization of place fields. They show that somatic disinhibition, together with spatially modulated inputs, is sufficient to form place fields. However, dendritic inhibition and synaptic plasticity allow for silent cells to turn into stable place cells. The authors show that the combined action of somatic and dendritic inhibition balances an increase in excitatory weights due to synaptic plasticity, so that place cells after exploration return to their baseline firing rate. Their model suggests that place cell stability is due to large excitatory synaptic weights and large dendritic inhibition. The authors also use their model to predict how to perturb place fields. Artificially induced dendritic events in place cells can shift place field location even after place field stabilization. The authors' model reproduces a wide range of observations from the hippocampal CA1 network and provides a circuit-level understanding of place field formation and stabilization. Their model also makes predictions that can be tested in future experiments.'
 'Molecular xenomonitoring ( MX ) is a method used to detect parasite DNA in the vector population to monitor onchocerciasis transmission. However, the sensitivity of MX for detecting onchocerciasis-positive communities has not been evaluated. We conducted a systematic review of studies reporting the prevalence of Onchocerca volvulus DNA in wild-caught Simulium spp. flies ( MX rate ) and corresponding prevalence of microfilaria ( mf ) in humans. We found that MX is sensitive to communities with ongoing onchocerciasis transmission and has potential to predict human mf prevalence. However, further data is required to understand this relationship, particularly from MX surveys conducted earlier in control programmes before transmission has been interrupted. Our findings suggest that MX can be used as a surveillance tool for onchocerciasis elimination programmes and may be useful for predicting the success of control programmes.'
 'Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease caused by the obligate intracellular bacteria Mycobacterium leprae. The lectin pathway of complement (LP) has long been recognized as favoring the establishment of infection and development of disease. In this study, we investigated the possible roles played by three proteins of the LP, MASP-1, MASP-3, and MAp44, in leprosy susceptibility and clinical presentation. We found that lower levels of MASP-3 and MAp44 were observed in leprosy patients compared with controls, and in lepromatous patients compared with non-lepromatous patients. Higher MASP-3 levels were present in controls carrying variants/haplotypes associated with leprosy resistance. Controls with rs1109452_rs850314*CA or CG had higher MASP-1 and lower MASP-3 levels. MASP-3 expression decreased in patients carrying rs1109452_rs850314*CA or CG, which may rely on exon 12 CpG methylation and/or miR-2861/miR-3181 mRNA binding. Our findings suggest that polymorphisms regulating MASP-3/MAp44 availability in serum modulate leprosy susceptibility, underlining the importance of LP regulation against pathogens that exploit phagocytosis to parasitize host macrophages.'
 'Nongenetic phenotypic variation can either speed up or slow down adaptive evolution . In this study, we show that it can speed up evolution in environments where available carbon and energy sources change over time. We use an experimentally validated model of Escherichia coli growth on two alternative carbon sources, glucose and acetate. On the superior carbon source ( glucose ), all cells achieve high growth rates, while on the inferior carbon source ( acetate ), only a small fraction of the population manages to initiate growth. Consequently, populations experience a bottleneck when the environment changes from the superior to the inferior carbon source. Growth on the inferior carbon source depends on a circuit under the control of a transcription factor that is repressed in the presence of the superior carbon source. We show that noise in the expression of this transcription factor can increase the probability that cells start growing on the inferior carbon source. In doing so, it can decrease the severity of the bottleneck and increase mean population fitness whenever this fitness is low. A modest amount of noise can also enhance the fitness effects of a beneficial allele that increases the fraction of a population initiating growth on acetate. Additionally, noise can protect this allele from extinction, accelerate its spread, and increase its likelihood of going to fixation. Central to the adaptation-enhancing principle we identify is the ability of noise to mitigate population bottlenecks, particularly in fluctuating environments. Because such bottlenecks are frequent in fluctuating environments, and because periodically fluctuating environments themselves are common, this principle may apply to a broad range of environments and organisms.'
 'A novel RNA-Protein interaction detection assay was used to identify proteins that directly or indirectly bind to dengue viral genomes in infected mosquito cells . Two mosquito proteins, Sec61A1 and Loquacious ( Loqs ), were found to be in complex with the viral RNA . Depletion analysis demonstrated that both Sec61A1 and Loqs have pro-viral functions in the dengue viral infectious cycle . Co-localization and pull-down assays showed that Loqs interacts with viral protein NS3 and both full-length and subgenomic viral RNAs . While Loqs coats the entire positive-stranded viral RNA , it binds selectively to the 3’ end of the negative-strand of the viral genome . In-depth analyses showed that the absence of Loqs did not affect translation or turnover of the viral RNA but modulated viral replication . Loqs also displayed pro-viral functions for several flaviviruses in infected mosquito cells , suggesting a conserved role for Loqs in flavivirus-infected mosquito cells .'
 'Temporal environmental variations affect diversity in communities of competing populations. In particular, the covariance between competition and environment is known to facilitate invasions of rare species via the storage effect. Here we present a quantitative study of the effects of temporal variations in two-species and in diverse communities. Four scenarios are compared: environmental variations may be either periodic (seasonal) or stochastic, and the dynamics may support the storage effect (global competition) or not (local competition). In two-species communities, coexistence is quantified via the mean time to absorption, and we show that stochastic variations yield shorter persistence time because they allow for rare sequences of bad years. In diverse communities, where the steady-state reflects a colonization-extinction equilibrium, the actual number of temporal niches plays a crucial role. When this number is large, the same trends hold: storage effect and periodic variations increase both species richness and the evenness of the community. Surprisingly, when the number of temporal niches is small, global competition acts to decrease species richness and evenness, as it focuses the competition to specific periods, thus increasing the effective fitness differences. Stochastic variations may drive a population to extinction through rare sequences of bad years, while periodic variations allow for a larger number of temporal niches that stabilize the community. The number of temporal niches is crucial for the storage effect to promote coexistence in diverse communities. The study provides a quantitative framework for understanding the effects of temporal environmental variations on community dynamics and biodiversity.'
 'Evolutionary Trace (ET) is a computational method that predicts functionally important residues in proteins by correlating sequence variations with evolutionary divergences. In this study, the authors adapted ET to predict functional nucleotides in RNA molecules. They applied ET to a representative set of RNA molecules from the Rfam database and found that ET bases exhibit the same general rules as ET residues. In particular, they focused on a subset of well-characterized RNAs with known tertiary structures and found that Evolutionary Trace can be readily applied to multiple sequence alignments of homologous fncRNAs to identify nucleotides of functional importance. The authors conclude that their work provides a new approach to identify functional determinants in RNA sequences and functional sites in RNA structures, and reveals details on the basis of RNA molecular functions.'
 'The source detection problem in epidemiology is the identification of the origin of an epidemic. In this paper, we propose a method for source detection that integrates a sensor-based approach with a stochastic, spatially-explicit epidemiological model for waterborne disease. We adopt a Bayesian perspective, which allows for uncertainty quantification and the incorporation of prior information. Our method requires only first-arrival times of the epidemic at a small proportion of nodes, termed sensors or observers. We demonstrate our approach in the context of the 2000-2002 cholera outbreak in the KwaZulu-Natal province of South Africa. Our integrative, Bayesian approach demonstrates significant improvement in this context over the use of a generic sensor-based source detection approach alone. We integrate cholera-specific transmission models in network-based source detection, the role of human mobility in the complex spreading of waterborne diseases, and a Bayesian approach with an informed prior probability distribution. Our method has been implemented in the NetOrigin package in R. Our approach provides a statistically well-defined region of nodes likely to be the spreading origin of the observed process, accompanied by a corresponding posterior probability. This allows for the identification of the relevant mixture component in a multivariate Gaussian mixture model. Our method is applicable to other waterborne diseases and can be extended to incorporate additional sources of information. Our approach provides a valuable tool for epidemic source detection and control.'
 'Recent advances in multiplex imaging techniques have allowed for the staining of dozens of markers within a single tissue sample, but space on the panel is limited due to technical artifacts, tissue loss, and long imaging acquisition times. To address this, we propose computational approaches to determine the amount of shared information between markers and select an optimally reduced panel that captures maximum amount of information with the fewest markers. We examined several panel selection approaches and evaluated them based on their ability to reconstruct the full panel images and information within breast cancer tissue microarray datasets using cyclic immunofluorescence as a proof of concept. We show that all methods performed adequately and could re-capture cell types using only 18 of 25 markers ( 72% of the original panel size ). Using the proposed methods, it is possible for researchers to design more efficient multiplex imaging panels that maximize the amount of information retained with respect to certain evaluation metrics and architecture biases.'
 'Leptospirosis is a bacterial infection caused by Leptospira bacteria. It is a common zoonotic disease that affects humans and animals. Leptospirosis can cause acute and chronic kidney disease. In this study, researchers used a hamster model to investigate the dynamics of leptospires and histopathological changes in the kidneys during the acute and chronic phases of leptospirosis. They found that the distribution of leptospires in the kidney during the acute phase may influence the decline in renal function during the chronic phase. The researchers suggest that the renal distribution of leptospires during the acute phase probably affected the extent of tubular atrophy, leading to chronic kidney disease. This study provides important insights into the pathogenesis of leptospirosis and its effects on the kidney.'
 'Talaromycosis is a serious regional disease endemic in Southeast Asia, especially in Guangxi, China. In-hospital mortality of HIV/AIDS patients with T . marneffei infection is high. Machine learning techniques can be used to develop a predictive model to identify relevant prognostic factors to predict death. We prospectively enrolled HIV/AIDS patients with T . marneffei infection in the Fourth People’s Hospital of Nanning, Guangxi, from January 2012 to June 2019. The XGBoost machine learning model is a good predictor in the hospitalization outcome of HIV/AIDS patients with T . marneffei infection. The model may have potential application in mortality prediction and high-risk factor identification in the talaromycosis population. The study highlights the importance of machine learning in predicting the outcome of patients with T . marneffei infection and may contribute to the development of new strategies for the prevention and treatment of this disease.'
 'Toxocariasis is a parasitic infection caused by the roundworm Toxocara canis and Toxocara cati, which infect dogs and cats, respectively. Humans can become infected by ingesting embryonated eggs from the soil. The infection can be asymptomatic or cause a range of symptoms, including visceral larva migrans, ocular larva migrans, and covert toxocariasis. Covert toxocariasis is a subclinical form of the infection that can cause cognitive and developmental delays in children. A recent study examined the prevalence of Toxocara eggs in public spaces in New York City and found that the Bronx had the highest contamination rate, with over 70% of eggs recovered in embryonic form. The study also identified feral or untreated cats as a significant source of environmental contamination. These findings highlight the need for reducing environmental Toxocara contamination and exploring further approaches to interrupt transmission to humans.'
 'Envenoming by scorpions in the genus Tityus is a public health problem in Tropical America . One of the most medically significant species is Tityus trivittatus , which is known to occur from southwest Brazil to central-northern and eastern Argentina . In this work , we studied the lethality , composition , antigenicity , and enzymatic activity of venom from a T . trivittatus population found further north in urban areas of eastern Paraguay , where it has caused serious envenomation of children . Our results indicate that the population is of medical importance as it produces a potently toxic venom with an LD50 around 1 . 19 mg/kg . Venom neutralization in preliminary mouse bioassays was complete when using Brazilian anti-T . serrulatus antivenom but only partial when using Argentinean anti-T . trivittatus antivenom . Venom competitive solid-phase enzyme immunoassays and immunoblotting from Argentinean and Paraguayan T . trivittatus populations indicated that antigenic differences exist across the species range . SDS-PAGE showed variations in type and relative amounts of venom proteins between T . trivitattus samples from Argentina and Paraguay . MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry indicated that while some sodium channel toxins are shared , including β-toxin Tt1g , others are population-specific . Proteolytic activity by zymography and peptide identification through nESI-MS/MS also point out that population-specific proteases may exist in T . trivitattus , which are postulated to be involved in the envenoming process . A time-calibrated molecular phylogeny of mitochondrial COI sequences revealed a significant ( 8 . 14% ) genetic differentiation between the Argentinean and Paraguayan populations , which appeared to have diverged between the mid Miocene and early Pliocene . Altogether , toxinological and genetic evidence indicate that T . trivitattus populations from Paraguay and Argentina correspond to distinct , unique cryptic species , and suggest that further venom and taxonomic diversity exists in synanthropic southern South American Tityus than previously thought .'
 'Bats use echolocation to navigate and find food. They can also use echoes to identify objects, including flowers. Some bat-pollinated flowers have evolved to be acoustically conspicuous to bats. However, it is not clear whether other bat-pollinated flowers also have acoustic adaptations or whether acoustic traits differ between bat-pollinated and other types of flowers. To investigate this, we recorded echoes from 168 flowers belonging to 12 different species, including 6 bat-pollinated and 6 insect-pollinated species. We analyzed the spectral target strength of the echoes and trained a convolutional neural network ( CNN ) to classify the flowers. We found that bat-pollinated flowers have a significantly higher echo target strength and differ in their morphology, specifically in the lower variance of their morphological features. We also found that a good classification accuracy can be achieved with only one echo/spectrogram to classify the 12 different plant species, with bat-pollinated flowers being easier to classify. The higher classification performance of bat-pollinated flowers can be explained by the lower variance of their morphology. Our results suggest that acoustic adaptations may be more common in bat-pollinated flowers than previously thought and that acoustic traits differ between bat-pollinated and other types of flowers.'
 'Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease caused by parasitic worms of the genus Schistosoma. The World Health Organization ( WHO ) regards schistosomiasis as a neglected tropical disease ( NTD ) and estimates that at least 206.4 million people require preventive treatment for schistosomiasis, out of which only 89 million have been treated ( WHO , 2018 ). In China, all infections are due to Schistosoma japonicum with Oncomelania hupensis as the sole intermediate snail host which is amphibious rather than aquatic and associated with high moisture microhabitats. In contrast to other schistosome species adapted to humans, S . japonicum not only infects humans but also a wide variety of mammals, particularly domestic animals that act as reservoirs such as the water buffalo. Based on the epidemiological pattern of schistosomiasis and ecological characteristics of the snails, snail habitats can be categorized into three types in China: ( i ) marshland and lake areas, ( ii ) mountainous and hilly areas, and ( iii ) plain areas with waterway networks. After decades of efforts to combat schistosomiasis in China, the number of patients has dropped significantly thanks to mass drug administration ( MDA ) with praziquantel which controls the morbidity due to schistosomiasis effectively. However, elimination of schistosomiasis requires other methods, in particular control of the transmission of the disease. Surveys conducted in the mid-1950s showed that the snail habitat areas were about 14.3 billion km2, which declined to 3.6 billion km2 in 2015. This must decline further but progress in this direction presents complex challenges, which vary depending on the ecology and topography of the endemic areas including lake and marshlands and the hilly or mountainous type. The O . hupensis snail species is difficult to trace as it is amphibious, generally widely distributed and requires particular environmental conditions, such as high moisture. In the hilly and mountainous areas its distribution is scattered and with often inaccessible habitats making snail control a challenge. In addition, the use of molluscicides is restricted due to environmental protection, resulting in unstable epidemic situations that cannot easily be controlled. Although infected snails are rarely found In recent years, the O . hupensis habitats have not disappeared and some areas even show an upward trend. For example, a snail survey in 2016 covering a total area of 8,140 km2 found snails in 2,351 km2, including 13 km2 of new areas where snails had not been detected before, which meant an increase of 102.16% compared with 2015. Previous studies have shown when ecological conditions become more favourable, potential snail habitats expand resulting in a general increase in snail numbers, and also an increase in numbers of infected snails. Thus, identification and monitoring of the snail habitats is crucial for effective schistosomiasis control in the long term. This is traditionally carried out through manual snail collection in the field, which has been done on a big scale in China since the 1960s. This approach is effective but requires both a large human effort and financial resources. Furthermore, this approach is difficult in less accessible areas, such as hills and marshes. For this reason, remotely sensed environmental data derived from satellite imagery, have been widely used to identify snail habitats, which in combination with actual data on snail distributions as ground truth can be used to predict schistosomiasis risk. However, this method can only surmise the existence of snails through the presence of potential habitats and association with particular values of certain environmental variables. Thus, the risk of misclassification is high, in particular as the resolution of the satellite optical sensors is generally not sufficient for unequivocal identification of a snail habitat. To improve identification, we therefore attempted a modelling strategy with machine-learning as the approach to achieve superior accuracy on the basis of our original research. We found that the presence-absence models performing better than those based on presence-only. However, those derived from machine-learning, especially the random forest ( RF ) approach were preferable with all indices above 0.90. Distance to nearest river was found to be the most important variable for the lake/marshlands, while the climatic variables were more important for the hilly endemic areas. The predicted high-risk areas for potential snail habitats of
 'Giardia duodenalis is a major diarrheal disease worldwide that is treated with metronidazole (MTZ) and albendazole (ABZ). ABZ resistance in this parasite has been linked to decreased levels of ABZ metabolites, increased detoxification enzymes, and an increased thiol pool. We found that the iron-containing cofactor heme induces higher mRNA expression levels of flavohemoglobin (gFlHb) in Giardia trophozoites. Molecular docking analyses predict favorable interactions of gFlHb with ABZ, ABZSO, and ABZSOO. Spectral analyses of recombinant gFlHb in the presence of ABZ, ABZSO, and ABZSOO showed high affinities for each of these compounds. ABZ is indirectly oxidized to ABZSO by superoxide generated from the NADH oxidase activity of gFlHb. In a similar manner, xanthine oxidase was able to produce ABZSO in the presence of xanthine and ABZ. Interestingly, gFlHb mRNA expression is lower in albendazole-resistant clones compared to those that are sensitive to this drug. Furthermore, all albendazole-resistant clones transfected to overexpress gFlHb displayed higher susceptibility to the drug than the parent clones. Collectively these findings indicate a role for gFlHb in ABZ conversion to its sulfoxide and that gFlHb down-regulation acts as a passive pharmacokinetic mechanism of resistance in this parasite.'
 'The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a model organism for studying the metabolism of sulfur, an essential element for life. However, the genetic network responsible for sulfur metabolism is not well understood. We used a combination of proteomic, genetic, and biochemical approaches to study the growth of yeast cells that lack the homocysteine synthase Met17p. We discovered a previously unknown gene product, Hsu1p, which encodes a homocysteine synthase that allows cells to grow by reassimilating hydrogen sulfide leaked from met17Δ cells. Our results show that cells can cooperate to overcome sulfur limitation, indicating that the collective properties of microbial communities facilitate their basic metabolic capacity. This discovery provides new insights into the metabolism of sulfur in yeast and may have implications for understanding the metabolism of sulfur in other organisms.'
 'Juvenile hormone (JH) is a gonadotrophic hormone that stimulates insect vitellogenesis and oogenesis. Paracellular transport of yolk proteins through intercellular channels (patency) in the follicular epithelium is a developmentally regulated and evolutionarily conserved process during vitellogenesis. In this study, we report that JH-regulated remodeling of zonula adherens (ZA), the belt-like adherens junction maintaining physical linking between follicle cells, is responsible for patency opening. JH triggers phosphorylation of Partitioning defective protein 3 (Par3) via a signaling cascade including G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), small GTPase Cell division cycle 42 (Cdc42), and atypical Protein kinase C (aPKC). Par3 phosphorylation results in its disassociation from β-Catenin, the cytoplasmic partner of ZA core component E-Cadherin. Release of Par3 from the β-Catenin/E-Cadherin complex causes ZA disassembly at tricellular contacts, consequently leading to patency enlargement. This study provides new insight into how JH stimulates insect vitellogenesis and egg production via inducing the opening of paracellular route for vitellogenin transport crossing the follicular epithelium barrier.'
 'Alcohol-related liver disease ( ALD ) is a major cause of liver-related deaths worldwide. Unfortunately, it is difficult to identify patients with early-stage ALD, as these are largely asymptomatic. In this study, we used data from the Danish National Patient Registry to identify relevant upstream diagnoses that help understand the development of ALD and meaningful downstream diagnoses that represent its progression to liver failure. We found that ALC is the most common form of ALD in the registry data and that ALC patients have a strong over-representation of diagnoses associated with liver dysfunction. By contrast, we identified a small number of ALF patients who appear to be much less sick than those with ALC. We performed a matched case–control study using the group of patients with ALC as cases and their matched patients with non-ALD as controls. Machine learning models trained and tested on the set of ALC patients achieved a high performance for data classification. When testing the same trained models on the small set of ALF patients, their performance dropped a lot. The statistical and machine learning results underscore small groups of upstream and downstream comorbidities that accurately detect ALC patients and show promise in prediction of ALF. Our findings highlight the potential of this approach to uncover knowledge in registry data related to ALD.'
 'Dendrites are the branching projections of neurons that receive signals from other neurons. During development, dendrites are pruned and then regenerated to form mature dendritic trees. Injury to dendrites can also trigger regeneration. In this study, the authors found that a microRNA called miR-87 is important for both developmental and injury-induced dendrite regeneration in Drosophila. They found that miR-87 is expressed during the larva-to-pupa transition and that it promotes dendrite regeneration by targeting a transcriptional repressor called Ttk69. The authors also found that miR-87 is required for dendrite regeneration after injury. These findings suggest that miR-87 plays a crucial role in dendrite regeneration in both developmental and injury-induced contexts.'
γδ T cells are a type of unconventional T cell that play an important role in the immune response to malaria. These cells are able to recognize malaria-derived phosphoantigens through a unique mode of presentation by the transmembrane presenting molecules Butyrophilin 3A1 (BTN3A1) and Butyrophilin 2A1. Vδ2 T cells are able to inhibit replication of blood-stage parasites in vitro by the release of cytotoxic granules containing granulysin. However, chronic exposure to malaria is associated with a decline in both the frequency of Vδ2 T cells and their ability to produce pro-inflammatory cytokines in response to P. falciparum antigen. We have previously shown that CD16/FcγRIIIa expression identifies a subset of Vδ2 cells that are largely unresponsive to stimulation with P. falciparum antigen in vitro. In this study, we demonstrate that CD16+ Vδ2 T cells adopt a cytotoxic phenotype and acquire the ability to respond independent of the TCR through engagement of CD16. We found that CD16+ Vδ2 T cells downregulate the TCR and become largely refractory to stimulation with malaria antigen alone, but are able to respond robustly to opsonized malaria antigen, resulting in the release of cytotoxic mediators and inflammatory cytokines. By harnessing the specificity of anti-malarial IgG, this second pathway of activation may enable Vδ2 T cells to mediate anti-parasite immunity in chronically malaria-exposed individuals.
 'DEER-PREdict is a software program that predicts Double Electron-Electron Resonance distance distributions and Paramagnetic Relaxation Enhancement rates from ensembles of protein conformations. It uses an established rotamer library approach to describe the paramagnetic probes bound covalently to the protein. DEER-PREdict has been designed to operate efficiently on large conformational ensembles and has been tested with experimentally characterized protein systems. It is open source and available at github.com/KULL-Centre/DEERpredict and as a Python PyPI package pypi.org/project/DEERPREdict. The software can be used to validate or refine molecular models and interpret experimental data.'
 'Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli ( ETEC ) is a common cause of diarrhea in children under 5 years old in low-middle income countries ( LMICs ). The lack of point-of-care diagnostic tools for routine ETEC diagnosis results in limited data regarding the actual burden and epidemiology in the endemic areas. We evaluated the performance of a novel Rapid LAMP based Diagnostic Test ( RLDT ) for detection of ETEC in stool as a point-of-care diagnostic assay in a resource-limited setting. We conducted a cross-sectional study of 324 randomly selected stool samples from children under 5 presenting with moderate to severe diarrhea ( MSD ) in Zambia. The RLDT was evaluated by targeting three ETEC toxin genes [heat labile toxin ( LT ) and heat stable toxins ( STh and STp )]. The results of this study suggest that RLDT is sufficiently sensitive and specific and easy to implement in the endemic countries. Being rapid and simple, the RLDT also presents as an attractive tool for point-of-care testing at the health facilities and laboratories in the resource-limited settings.'
 'In recent years, there has been a growing interest in the use of machine learning algorithms in the field of medicine. Machine learning algorithms are a type of artificial intelligence that can learn from data and make predictions or decisions without being explicitly programmed. In medicine, machine learning algorithms have been used for a variety of tasks, including disease diagnosis, drug discovery, and personalized medicine. One of the most popular machine learning algorithms used in medicine is the deep learning algorithm, which is a type of neural network that can learn from large amounts of data. Deep learning algorithms have been used to analyze medical images, such as X-rays and MRIs, and to identify patterns in patient data that can be used to make predictions about their health. Another popular machine learning algorithm used in medicine is the random forest algorithm, which is an ensemble learning method that combines multiple decision trees to make predictions. Random forest algorithms have been used to predict patient outcomes, identify risk factors for disease, and develop personalized treatment plans. Other machine learning algorithms that have been used in medicine include support vector machines, k-nearest neighbors, and naive Bayes. These algorithms have been used for tasks such as predicting patient outcomes, identifying risk factors for disease, and developing personalized treatment plans. Overall, machine learning algorithms have the potential to revolutionize medicine by improving diagnosis, treatment, and patient outcomes. However, it is important to note that machine learning algorithms are only as good as the data they are trained on, so it is important to ensure that the data used to train these algorithms is accurate and representative of the population being studied.'
 'In this study, we introduce a new approach to model the time evolution of disease phenotypes in a reaction network as a microscopic model for the progress of disease. We define a disease state as a macroscopic state of the sign probability distribution and use a probabilistic model of signs and diseases to study the diagnostic process. We find that the accuracy of diagnosis improves with time as the reaction network deviates from the healthy state of maximum objective function. This information can be used to suggest an optimal intervention or screening time for specific diseases and diagnostic models. Our approach provides a new tool for understanding the dynamics of disease development and the diagnostic process.'
 'The relationship between the transmission of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and the amount of virus present in the environment surrounding a susceptible host is not well understood. In this study, a mathematical model was developed to determine the relationship between viral kinetics in the upper respiratory tract, viral kinetics in the aerosols, and new transmissions in golden hamsters challenged with SARS-CoV-2. The study found that infectious virus shedding early in infection correlates with transmission events, shedding of infectious virus diminishes late in the infection, and high viral RNA levels late in the infection are a poor indicator of transmission. The study also showed that viral infectiousness increases in a density-dependent manner with viral RNA and that their relative ratio is time-dependent. These findings are useful for designing interventions.'
β-diversity is a measure of the difference between two communities, such as the number of unique species in each community. However, when only partial samples are available, it is difficult to accurately calculate β-diversity. In this study, we developed a Bayesian model to estimate β-diversity when community sizes are unknown. Our model uses the number of shared species, the number of species in each community, and the number of independent samples taken from each community. We applied our model to estimate the genetic similarity between pairs of malaria parasites from the species Plasmodium falciparum. Our results show that our model provides unbiased estimates of β-diversity with quantified uncertainty.
 'This study aimed to determine the diagnostic validity of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) and Rapid Diagnostic Tests ( RDT ) among individuals with suspected chronic Chagas Disease ( CD ) . The study included 43 studies that assessed ELISA tests, RDTs, or both against different reference standards. The results showed that ELISA tests had a sensitivity of 99% and a specificity of 98%, while RDTs had values of 95% and 97%, respectively. The study also found that Deeks’ test showed asymmetry on the ELISA assays. The authors concluded that ELISA and RDT tests have high validity for diagnosing chronic Chagas disease. The study provides valuable information for healthcare professionals and researchers working in the field of Chagas disease diagnosis. The study also highlights the need for further research to improve the diagnostic accuracy of RDTs and to develop new diagnostic tools for Chagas disease.'
 'Computational modeling of dopamine transmission is challenging due to the complex underlying mechanisms. Here we present a new computational model that considers release, diffusion, and uptake of dopamine, multiple terminal release events, and the geometry of the synaptic cleft. We were able to validate our model by simulating concentration values comparable to physiological values observed in empirical studies. Our model reflects a very localized signal occurring on the synaptic level, i.e., synaptic dopamine release is negligibly recognized by neighboring synapses. We compared spatio-temporal variability in a simulation mimicking normal dopamine transmission in striatum to scenarios of enhanced dopamine release and dopamine uptake inhibition. We found different variability characteristics between the three settings, which may in part account for differences in empirical observations. From a clinical perspective, differences in striatal dopaminergic signaling contribute to differential learning and reward processing, with relevant implications for addictive- and compulsive-like behavior. Specifically, dopaminergic tone is assumed to impact on phasic dopamine and hence on the integration of reward-related signals. However, in humans DA tone is classically assessed using PET, which is an indirect measure of endogenous DA availability and suffers from temporal and spatial resolution issues. We discuss how this can lead to discrepancies with observations from other methods such as microdialysis and show how computational modeling can help to refine our understanding of DA transmission.'
 'Ticks are long-lived and prolific blood-sucking arthropods that transmit a variety of pathogens to humans and animals. During the blood-sucking process, tick salivary glands secrete a variety of biologically-active molecules that reduce host pain and itching, inhibit blood coagulation, and disturb the innate and adaptive immune responses. Tick salivary glands rapidly degenerate several days post engorgement, which may be caused by the increased concentration of ecdysone in the hemolymph. In this study, the authors explored the regulatory role of Rhipicephalus haemaphysaloides autophagy-related 5 (RhATG5) in the degeneration of tick salivary glands. They found that RhATG5 was cleaved by μ-calpain only in the presence of calcium; the mutant RhATG5191-199Δ was not cleaved. Treatment with 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E) led to programmed cell death in the salivary glands of unfed ticks in vitro, RhATG8-phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) was upregulated in ticks treated with low concentration of 20E, and Rhcaspase-7 was upregulated in ticks treated with a high concentration of 20E. High concentrations of 20E led to the cleavage of RhATG5. Calcium concentration and expression of Rhcalpains were also upregulated in the tick salivary glands. RNA interference (RNAi) of RhATG5 in vitro inhibited both autophagy and apoptosis of the tick salivary glands. RNAi of RhATG5 in vivo significantly inhibited the normal feeding process. These results demonstrated that high concentrations of 20E led to the cleavage of RhATG5 by increasing the concentration of calcium and stimulated the transition from autophagy to apoptosis.'
 'Yellow fever ( YF ) is a zoonotic disease caused by the yellow fever virus ( YFV ) that infects both humans and non-human primates ( NHPs ). It is endemic in 34 countries in Africa and 13 in South America, with transmission occurring in two cycles: the sylvatic and urban. In the sylvatic cycle, transmission is maintained by sylvatic mosquito species of the Haemogogus and Sabethes genera between NHPs, with humans considered incidental hosts. In the urban cycle, transmission is established in the domestic Aedes aegypti mosquito, which can cause large and explosive outbreaks in the absence of a NHP reservoir. In South America, the sylvatic cycle has historically been confined to Amazonian regions, but over the past 20 years the area where YF is endemic in NHPs has seen rapid geographic expansion. In Brazil, the largest outbreaks in the past 30 years have occurred in the South-East Atlantic coast, in states that have never previously recorded YF. We investigated the drivers of YF transmission both intra and interannually, using temporally varying covariates related to climate, land-cover, vegetation, and human and NHP demographics. We examined the role of vegetation cover and its heterogeneity/fragmentation, which has previously been postulated to play a role in YFV spillover but has not been thoroughly investigated. By utilising two model structures, we investigated the differential drivers of seasonal and interannual variation in YF incidence. Our models reproduced the spatiotemporal heterogeneities in YF transmission with coefficient of determination ( R2 ) values of 0.43 ( 95% CI 0.41–0.45 ) for the interannual model and 0.66 ( 95% CI 0.64–0.67 ) for the seasonal model. Our findings may help understand the recent expansions of the YF endemic zone and the highly seasonal nature of YF.'
 'This study investigated the effects of Pavlovian cues on instrumental behavior in both clinical OCD patients and healthy controls using a standard PIT task. The results indicated a weaker Pavlovian influence on instrumental behavior in OCD patients than in healthy controls, especially for negative cues. This study provides deeper insight into our understanding of deficits in OCD from the perspective of Pavlovian influences on instrumental behavior and may have implications for OCD treatment modalities focused on reducing compulsive behaviors.'
The Pan pathway is a crucial metabolic pathway that is conserved across all living organisms. It is involved in the synthesis of coenzyme A (CoA), which is an essential cofactor for many metabolic reactions. In recent years, there has been a growing interest in targeting the Pan pathway as a potential therapeutic strategy for treating various diseases, including cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, and infectious diseases. The Pan pathway is particularly attractive as a drug target because it is essential for the survival of many pathogens, including bacteria, fungi, and parasites. In this review, we discuss the current state of research on targeting the Pan pathway as a therapeutic strategy, focusing on the use of small molecules that inhibit key enzymes in the pathway. We also highlight some of the challenges associated with targeting the Pan pathway and discuss potential solutions to these challenges. Overall, this review provides a comprehensive overview of the current state of research on targeting the Pan pathway as a therapeutic strategy and highlights some of the promising avenues for future research.
 'Membrane proteins are essential for cellular functions and drug targets. However, their structures are difficult to determine due to their hydrophobic nature. To address this issue, we propose a new characteristic quantity, membrane contact probability (MCP), to describe the likelihood of direct contact between the protein amino acids and the hydrophobic acyl chains of lipid molecules. We show that MCP can be predicted with high accuracy using a deep learning-based method, and it can be integrated into a contact map predictor to improve the prediction precision of protein structures. Our findings suggest that MCP is an essential property of membrane proteins and can be used for various applications in protein structure prediction and analysis.'
 'The COVID-19 pandemic has been managed through various non-pharmaceutical interventions, but it is difficult to predict which of these are the most effective for a given population. We developed a computationally efficient and scalable agent-based microsimulation framework called PanSim, which allows us to test control measures in multiple infection waves caused by the spread of a new virus variant in a city-sized societal environment using a unified framework fitted to realistic data. We found that vaccination strategies prioritising occupational risk groups minimise the number of infections but allow higher mortality while prioritising vulnerable groups minimises mortality but implies an increased infection rate. We also found that intensive vaccination along with non-pharmaceutical interventions can substantially suppress the spread of the virus, while low levels of vaccination, premature reopening may easily revert the epidemic to an uncontrolled state. Our analysis highlights that while vaccination protects the elderly from COVID-19, a large percentage of children will contract the virus, and we also show the benefits and limitations of various quarantine and testing scenarios. The uniquely detailed spatio-temporal resolution of PanSim allows the design and testing of complex, specifically targeted interventions with a large number of agents under dynamically changing conditions.'
 'Undernutrition is a major public health problem worldwide, affecting over 40% of children under five years of age. Wasting, defined as weight-for-height standard deviation z score (WHZ) <-2, is an indicator of acute malnutrition and is associated with increased risk of mortality and developmental delay. Environmental enteric dysfunction (EED) is a condition that affects the small intestine and is associated with poor linear growth. EED is prevalent in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) and is characterized by small intestinal villous blunting. However, the etiology of EED remains elusive. In this study, the authors developed a histology index to assess the small intestinal biopsies of children with EED. The index was tested on two distinct cohorts with suboptimal growth recruited from distinct geographic locations where EED is prevalent and North American gluten-sensitive enteropathy (GSE) and control cohorts. The authors found that eight of the 11 histologic scoring parameters showed useful degrees of variation. The overall concordance across all parameters was 96% weighted agreement, kappa 0.70, and Gwet’s AC 0.93. The authors propose the first EED histology index for interpreting duodenal biopsies. This index should be useful in future clinical and translational studies of this widespread, poorly understood, and highly consequential disorder, which might be caused by multiple contributing processes, in different regions of the world.'
 'Transparent games' are a new game-theoretic setting that accounts for the visibility of actions in interactions between agents. In contrast to the classic simultaneous and sequential games, where players act either strictly simultaneously or sequentially without knowing each other’s current choices, transparent games allow each player to have a certain probability of observing the partner’s choice before deciding on its own action. We demonstrate that even a small probability of seeing the partner’s choice before one’s own decision substantially changes the evolutionary successful strategies. Action visibility enhances cooperation in an iterated coordination game, but reduces cooperation in a more competitive iterated Prisoner’s Dilemma. In both games, “Win–stay, lose–shift” and “Tit-for-tat” strategies are predominant for moderate transparency, while a “Leader-Follower” strategy emerges for high transparency. Our results have implications for studies of human and animal social behaviour, especially for the analysis of dyadic and group interactions.
 'Telomeres are repetitive DNA sequences at the ends of chromosomes that protect them from degradation and fusion. Telomeres shorten with each cell division, and when they become too short, cells enter a state of crisis, which can lead to cell death or the activation of a telomere maintenance mechanism (TMM). Most cancers use telomerase, an enzyme that adds new telomere repeats to the ends of chromosomes, as their TMM. However, about 15% of cancers use an alternative mechanism called ALT (alternative lengthening of telomeres), which involves the recombination of telomeric DNA sequences. ATRX (alpha thalassemia/mental retardation syndrome X-linked) is a gene that is frequently mutated in ALT cancers. In this study, the authors show that the loss of ATRX combined with telomere dysfunction during crisis can initiate the ALT pathway in human fibroblasts, leading to replicative immortality. They also show that this process is transient in epithelial cells, and that telomeric elongation is associated with the presence of C-circles, which are markers of DNA damage. The authors also found that telomeric elongation in ALT cells is associated with an increase in non-canonical variant repeats in telomeres. These findings provide new insights into the mechanisms of ALT and the role of ATRX in telomere maintenance.'
 'Toxoplasma gondii is an intracellular parasite that causes toxoplasmosis in humans and animals. It has a unique set of secretory organelles called rhoptries, micronemes, and dense granules that release their contents upon host cell recognition. Dense granules are secreted constitutively during parasite replication and play a crucial role in modulating host metabolic and immune responses. In this study, we investigated the role of the small GTPase Rab11A in promoting the cytoskeleton-driven transport of dense granules and the release of their content into the vacuolar space. Rab11A also regulates transmembrane protein trafficking and localization during parasite replication, indicating a broader role of Rab11A in cargo exocytosis at the plasma membrane. Moreover, we found that Rab11A also regulates extracellular parasite motility and adhesion to host cells. In line with these findings, MIC2 secretion was altered in Rab11A-defective parasites, which also exhibited severe morphological defects. Strikingly, by live imaging, we observed a polarized accumulation of Rab11A-positive vesicles and dense granules at the apical pole of extracellular motile and invading parasites, suggesting that apically polarized Rab11A-dependent delivery of cargo regulates early secretory events during parasite entry into host cells.'
 'Single-cell stimulation in the rat somatosensory cortex can elicit a behavioral response. The probability of a behavioral response does not depend appreciably on the duration or intensity of a constant stimulation, but increases significantly upon injection of an irregular current. Biological mechanisms that can potentially suppress a constant input signal are present in the dynamics of both neurons and synapses. Here, we study a large network of integrate-and-fire neurons with several salient features of neuronal populations in the rat barrel cortex. The model includes cellular spike-frequency adaptation, experimentally constrained numbers and types of chemical synapses endowed with short-term plasticity, and gap junctions. Numerical simulations of this model indicate that cellular and synaptic adaptation mechanisms alone may not suffice to account for the experimental results if the local network activity is read out by an integrator. However, a circuit that approximates a differentiator can detect the single-cell stimulation with a reliability that barely depends on the length or intensity of the stimulus, but that increases when an irregular signal is used. This finding is in accordance with the experimental results obtained for the stimulation of a regularly-spiking excitatory cell. The results suggest that the readout of the network’s response to the stimulation of one randomly selected neuron is better accomplished by a differentiator circuit than by an integrator circuit.'
 'Human skin is exposed to environmental DNA damage and endogenous DNA damage, leading to the accumulation of somatic mutations over the lifetime of an individual. In this study, we sequenced genomes of single cell-derived clonal lineages obtained from primary skin cells of a large cohort of healthy individuals across a wide range of ages. We report here the range of mutation load and a comprehensive view of the various somatic genome changes that accumulate in skin cells. We demonstrate that UV-induced base substitutions, insertions and deletions are prominent even in sun-shielded skin. In addition, we detect accumulation of mutations due to spontaneous deamination of methylated cytosines as well as insertions and deletions characteristic of DNA replication errors in these cells. The endogenously induced somatic mutations and indels also demonstrate a linear increase with age, while UV-induced mutation load is age-independent. Finally, we show that DNA replication stalling at common fragile sites are potent sources of gross chromosomal rearrangements in human cells. Our data suggest that somatic mutations in skin of healthy individuals reflect the interplay of environmental and endogenous factors in facilitating genome instability and carcinogenesis.'
 'Clonorchiasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by the liver fluke Clonorchis sinensis. It is endemic in China, Taiwan, Korea, eastern Russia, and northern Vietnam. In Vietnam, the prevalence of clonorchiasis is estimated at 1 million people, with 17.2% of the population infected in Thanh Hoa province. In this study, the prevalence of clonorchiasis was 40.4% in four rural communities in northern Vietnam. The risk factors for clonorchiasis included being male, recent consumption of raw fish, low education level, lack of treatment, being between 19 to 39 years old, and the presence of an unhygienic toilet. The study highlights the need for control measures, including mass drug administration for high-endemic areas, and specific health education activities for risk groups in clonorchiasis-endemic areas.'
 'This study aimed to assess the occurrence and risk factors of skin infections among rural schoolchildren in southern Ethiopia by combining a frequentist and Bayesian approach. Using three-stage random sampling, we assessed 864 schoolchildren aged 7–14 years from the Wonago district in southern Ethiopia. We detected potential risk factors for scabies, tungiasis, and tinea infections and recorded their hygienic practices and socio-demographic information. The frequentist model revealed a clustering effect of 8.8% at the classroom level and an insignificant effect at the school level. The Bayesian model revealed a clustering effect of 16% at the classroom level and 5.3% at the school level. Almost three-fourths of the sample had at least one type of skin problem, and boys were at higher overall risk than girls (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] 1.55 [95% Bayesian credible interval [BCI] 1.01, 2.28]). Risk factors included unclean fingernails (aOR 1.85 [95% BCI 1.08, 2.97]), not washing the body (aOR 1.90 [95% BCI 1.21, 2.85]), and hair (aOR 3.07 [95% BCI 1.98, 4.57]) with soap every week; sharing a bed (aOR 1.97 [95% BCI 1.27, 2.89]), clothes (aOR 5.65 [95% BCI 3.31, 9.21]), or combs (aOR 3.65 [95% BCI 2.28, 5.53]); and living in a poor household (aOR 1.76 [95% BCI 1.03, 2.83]). Washing legs and feet with soap daily was identified as a protective factor for each of the three skin diseases (aOR 0.23 [95% BCI 0.15, 0.33]). We observed high variation in skin problems at the classroom level, indicating the presence of shared risk factors in these locations. The findings suggest the need to improve children’s personal hygiene via health education by schoolteachers and health workers.'
 'Mycobacteria are a group of bacteria that cause a variety of diseases in humans and animals, including tuberculosis and leprosy. These bacteria are able to survive and replicate within host cells, such as macrophages and neutrophils, by manipulating host immune signaling pathways. MicroRNA (miRNA) are small non-coding RNA molecules that can regulate gene expression by binding to target mRNA and either degrading or inhibiting translation. miRNA have been shown to be differentially expressed in mycobacterial infections and to play a role in regulating host immune responses. In this study, the authors used the zebrafish-Mycobacterium marinum model to investigate the role of miR-206 in mycobacterial infection. They found that miR-206 is upregulated following infection and that antagomir-mediated knockdown of miR-206 is protective against infection. The authors also found that miR-206 regulates the expression of chemokines involved in neutrophil recruitment and that knockdown of miR-206 results in enhanced recruitment of neutrophils to sites of infection. The authors used CRISPR/Cas9-mediated knockdown of chemokine receptor expression and AMD3100 inhibition of Cxcr4 to show that the enhanced neutrophil response and reduced bacterial burden caused by miR-206 knockdown was dependent on the Cxcl12/Cxcr4 signaling axis. Together, the authors' data suggest a pathway through which pathogenic mycobacteria induce host miR-206 expression to suppress Cxcl12/Cxcr4 signaling and prevent protective neutrophil recruitment to granulomas.'
 'The skin is a complex organ that plays a crucial role in protecting the body from external threats. The skin is composed of multiple layers of cells that are constantly renewing and differentiating. To understand how these processes are regulated, researchers have been studying the interactions between cells in the skin. In this study, the authors used a graph neural network (GNN) to analyze the interactions between cells in the skin. They found that the GNN was able to accurately predict the fate of cells based on their interactions with neighboring cells. The authors also used the GNN to extract rules that govern the interactions between cells in the skin. They found that cells in different regions of the skin have different rules for interacting with neighboring cells. This study provides new insights into how cells interact in the skin and how these interactions are regulated.'
 'This study presents a novel method called tensor sparse canonical correlation analysis ( TSCCA ) for identifying cancer-related miRNA-gene modules across multiple cancers. TSCCA is able to overcome the drawbacks of existing solutions and capture both the cancer-shared and specific miRNA-gene co-expressed modules with better biological interpretations. The authors comprehensively evaluate the performance of TSCCA using a set of simulated data and matched miRNA/gene expression data across 33 cancer types from the TCGA database. They uncover several dysfunctional miRNA-gene modules with important biological functions and statistical significance. These modules can advance our understanding of miRNA regulatory mechanisms of cancer and provide insights into miRNA-based treatments for cancer. The study provides a new paradigm for exploring the complex cancer-related miRNA-gene patterns by integrating multi-omics data of multi-cancers. The method developed in this study can be applied to other multi-omics data sets to identify dysfunctional miRNA-gene modules with important biological functions and statistical significance.'
 'Synaptic efficacy is subjected to activity-dependent changes on short- and long time scales. While short-term changes decay over minutes, long-term modifications last from hours up to a lifetime and are thought to constitute the basis of learning and memory. Both plasticity mechanisms have been studied extensively, but how their interaction shapes synaptic dynamics is little known. To investigate how both short- and long-term plasticity together control the induction of synaptic depression and potentiation, we used numerical simulations and mathematical analysis of a calcium-based model, where pre- and postsynaptic activity induces calcium transients driving synaptic long-term plasticity. We found that the model implementing known synaptic short-term dynamics in the calcium transients can be successfully fitted to long-term plasticity data obtained in visual- and somatosensory cortex. Interestingly, the impact of spike-timing and firing rate changes on plasticity occurs in the prevalent firing rate range, which is different in both cortical areas considered here. Our findings suggest that short- and long-term plasticity are together tuned to adapt plasticity to area-specific activity statistics such as firing rates.'
 'This study examined the sites of HeV replication and the immune response of infected Australian black flying foxes and ferrets at 12, 36, and 60 hours post exposure (hpe). Viral antigen was detected at 60 hpe in bats and was confined to the lungs, whereas in ferrets there was evidence of widespread viral RNA and antigen by 60 hpe. The mRNA expression of IFNs revealed antagonism of type I and III IFNs and a significant increase in the chemokine CXCL10 in bat lung and spleen following infection. In ferrets, there was an increase in the transcription of IFN in the spleen following infection. Liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) on lung tissue from bats and ferrets was performed at 0 and 60 hpe to obtain a global overview of viral and host protein expression. Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis of immune pathways revealed that six pathways, including a number involved in cell mediated immunity, were more likely to be upregulated in bat lung compared to ferrets. GO analysis also revealed enrichment of the type I IFN signaling pathway in bats and ferrets. This study contributes important comparative data on differences in the dissemination of HeV and the first to provide comparative data on the activation of immune pathways in bats and ferrets in vivo following infection.'
 'This study presents a new method called CLiP (Correlated Liability Predictors) to detect heterogeneity in single GWAS cohorts. The method calculates a weighted sum of correlations between SNPs contributing to a PRS on the case/control liability scale. The authors demonstrate mathematically and through simulation that among i . i . d . homogeneous cases generated by a liability threshold model, significant anti-correlations are expected between otherwise independent predictors due to ascertainment on the hidden liability score. In the presence of heterogeneity from distinct etiologies, confounding by covariates, or mislabeling, these correlation patterns are altered predictably. The authors further extend their method to two additional association study designs: CLiP-X for quantitative predictors in applications such as transcriptome-wide association, and CLiP-Y for quantitative phenotypes, where there is no clear distinction between cases and controls. Through simulations, the authors demonstrate that CLiP and its extensions reliably distinguish between homogeneous and heterogeneous cohorts when the PRS explains as low as 3% of variance on the liability scale and cohorts comprise 50,000-100,000 samples, an increasingly practical size for modern GWAS. The authors apply CLiP to heterogeneity detection in schizophrenia cohorts totaling over 50,000 cases and controls collected by the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium. They observe significant heterogeneity in mega-analysis of the combined PGC data (p-value 8.54 × 10−4) and in individual cohorts meta-analyzed using Fisher’s method (p-value 0.03). The authors also apply CLiP-Y to detect heterogeneity in neuroticism in over 10,000 individuals from the UK Biobank and detect heterogeneity with a p-value of 1.68 × 10−9. Scores were not significantly reduced when partitioning by known subclusters (“Depression” and “Worry”), suggesting that these factors are not the primary source of observed heterogeneity. The authors conclude that CLiP and its extensions provide a powerful tool for detecting heterogeneity in single GWAS cohorts and have the potential to improve the accuracy of polygenic risk scores and the development of personalized medicine.'
 'Cell culture remains the gold standard for primary isolation of viruses in clinical specimens . However, the identification of cytopathic effects (CPE) induced by virus infection is relatively subjective and requires subsequent reagents such as virus-specific monoclonal antibody to confirm the presence of virus . In this study, we aimed to utilize convolutional neural networks (CNN) to shorten the timing required for CPE identification and improve the assay sensitivity . Based on the characteristics of influenza-induced CPE, a CNN model with larger sizes of filters and max-pooling kernels was constructed without transfer learning. A total of 601 images from mock-infected and influenza-infected MDCK cells were used to train the model. The performance of the model was tested by using extra 400 images and the percentage of correct recognition was 99.75%. To further examine the limit of our model in evaluating the changes of CPE overtime, additional 1190 images from a new experiment were used and the recognition rates at 16 hour (hr), 28 hr, and 40 hr post virus infection were 71.80%, 98.25%, and 87.46%, respectively. The specificity of our model, examined by images of MDCK cells infected by six other non-influenza viruses, was 100%. Hence, a simple CNN model was established to enhance the identification of influenza virus in clinical practice.'
 'Herpesviruses are known to encode a number of inhibitors of host cell death, including RIP Homotypic Interaction Motif ( RHIM ) -containing proteins. Varicella zoster virus ( VZV ) is a member of the alphaherpesvirus subfamily and is responsible for causing chickenpox and shingles. We have identified a novel viral RHIM in the VZV capsid triplex protein, open reading frame ( ORF ) 20, that acts as a host cell death inhibitor. Like the human cellular RHIMs in RIPK1 and RIPK3 that stabilise the necrosome in TNF-induced necroptosis, and the viral RHIM in M45 from murine cytomegalovirus that inhibits cell death, the ORF20 RHIM is capable of forming fibrillar functional amyloid complexes. Notably, the ORF20 RHIM forms hybrid amyloid complexes with human ZBP1, a cytoplasmic sensor of viral nucleic acid. Although VZV can inhibit TNF-induced necroptosis, the ORF20 RHIM does not appear to be responsible for this inhibition. In contrast, the ZBP1 pathway is identified as important for VZV infection. Mutation of the ORF20 RHIM renders the virus incapable of efficient spread in ZBP1-expressing HT-29 cells, an effect which can be reversed by the inhibition of caspases. Therefore we conclude that the VZV ORF20 RHIM is important for preventing ZBP1-driven apoptosis during VZV infection, and propose that it mediates this effect by sequestering ZBP1 into decoy amyloid assemblies.'
 'Infectious diseases are caused by exposure to a pathogen, which can be hazardous or harmless. However, the risk of infection depends on the vulnerability of the host. We aimed to quantify the contributions of exposure, hazard, and vulnerability to the presence and intensity of Schistosoma haematobium infection in 13 villages along the Senegal River. We found that hazard was the most important component of infection presence, followed by vulnerability. Exposure was the most important component of infection intensity, followed by hazard. Our findings highlight the importance of implementing both social and environmental interventions to complement mass drug administration in controlling and eliminating schistosomiasis.'
 'Lassa fever (LF) is a hemorrhagic fever caused by the Lassa virus (LASV) and is endemic to some parts of West Africa. In 2018, Nigeria experienced a large LASV outbreak, with over 3498 suspected and 633 confirmed positive cases. The majority of LF signs observed in humans are recapitulated in the non-human primate (NHP) model, and the inbred (strain 13) guinea pig model may also include severe respiratory dysfunction associated with interstitial pneumonia. However, LASV has a high degree of genetic diversity that correlates with geographic distribution, making our current knowledge describing the breadth of pathogenesis severely lacking. Recent studies have highlighted a larger spectrum of LASV pathological signs through in vivo comparisons of isolates from Sierra Leone (Josiah), Liberia (Z-132), and Mali (Sormoba-R). In this study, we genetically characterized five recent LASV isolates collected from the 2018 outbreak in Nigeria. Three isolates were further evaluated in vivo and despite being closely related and from the same spatial/geographic region of Nigeria, only one of the three isolates proved lethal in strain 13 guinea pigs and NHPs. Additionally, this isolate exhibited atypical pathogenesis characteristics in the NHP model, most notably respiratory failure, not commonly described in hemorrhagic cases of LF. These results suggest that there is considerable phenotypic heterogeneity in LASV infections in Nigeria, which leads to a multitude of pathogenesis characteristics that could account for differences between subclinical and lethal LF infections. Most importantly, the development of disease models using currently circulating LASV strains in West Africa are critical for the evaluation of potential vaccines and medical countermeasures.'
 'Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease caused by the blood-dwelling trematode Schistosoma mansoni. It affects more than 260 million people globally and is endemic in Ethiopia. This study aimed to evaluate the hematological and biochemical changes in S. mansoni infected adult patients compared to apparently healthy controls. The study was conducted at Haik Primary Hospital in Haik town, North-East Ethiopia. One hundred and eighty study participants consisting of 90 S. mansoni infected patients and 90 apparently healthy controls were recruited using systematic random sampling. The prevalence of anemia and thrombocytopenia among S. mansoni infected patients was 23.3% and 26.7%, respectively. Erythrocytic sedimentation rate was significantly elevated among S. mansoni infected patients compared to healthy controls. The median white blood cell count, red blood cell count, red blood cell indices, and platelet indices were significantly lower among S. mansoni infected patients compared to healthy controls (P<0.05). On the other hand, the median eosinophil count was significantly elevated among S. mansoni infected patients compared to healthy controls (P<0.05). This study also showed significantly elevated values of serum alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, and direct bilirubin and lower albumin, total cholesterol, and triglycerides among S. mansoni infected patients compared to healthy controls. The findings of this study showed significantly altered hematological values and liver function tests among S. mansoni infected patients compared to healthy controls. Therefore, screening of S. mansoni infected patients for various hematological and biochemical parameters and providing treatment to the underlying abnormalities is very crucial to avoid schistosomiasis associated morbidity and mortality.'
 'This study aimed to understand the mechanisms underlying suboptimal antibody responses in HCV infection. By staining lymphocytes with a cocktail of soluble E2 (sE2) glycoproteins, the authors detected HCV E2-specific (sE2+) B cells directly ex vivo at multiple acute infection timepoints in 29 HCV-infected subjects with a wide range of anti-E2 IgG titers, including 17 persistently infected subjects and 12 subjects with spontaneous clearance of infection. The authors performed multi-dimensional flow cytometric analysis of sE2+ and E2-nonspecific (sE2-) class-switched B cells (csBC). In sE2+ csBC from both persistence and clearance subjects, frequencies of resting memory B cells (rMBC) were reduced, frequencies of activated MBC (actMBC) and tissue-like MBC (tlMBC) were increased, and expression of FCRL5, an IgG receptor, was significantly upregulated. Across all subjects, plasma anti-E2 IgG levels were positively correlated with frequencies of sE2+ rMBC and sE2+ actMBC, while anti-E2 IgG levels were negatively correlated with levels of FCRL5 expression on sE2+ rMBC and PD-1 expression on sE2+ actMBC. Upregulation of FCRL5 on sE2+ rMBC and upregulation of PD-1 on sE2+ actMBC may limit anti-E2 antibody production in vivo. Strategies that limit upregulation of these molecules could potentially generate higher titers of protective antibodies against HCV or other pathogens.'
