 'Yersinia pestis is the bacterium that causes plague, a disease that can be transmitted by fleas. Two modes of transmission have been described: early-phase transmission ( EPT ) and biofilm-dependent transmission ( BDT ). EPT occurs when a flea that has taken a highly bacteremic infectious blood meal is capable of transmitting Y . pestis on its next feeding attempt within 4 days of becoming infected. BDT does not typically ensue until at least 5–7 days after infection, the time required for a mature biofilm to form in the proventriculus. In this study, we found that 10–28% of two rodent flea species fed bacteremic rat or guinea pig blood refluxed a portion of the infected blood meal into the esophagus within 24 h of feeding. We term this phenomenon post-infection esophageal reflux ( PIER ). PIER correlated with the accumulation of a dense mixed aggregate of Y . pestis , red blood cell stroma , and oxyhemoglobin crystals that filled the proventriculus. At their next feeding , fleas with PIER were 3–25 times more likely to appear partially blocked , with fresh blood retained within the esophagus , than were fleas without PIER. Three days after feeding on bacteremic rat blood , groups of Oropsylla montana transmitted significantly more CFU than did groups infected using mouse blood , and this enhanced transmission was biofilm-dependent. Our data support a model in which EPT results from regurgitation of Y . pestis from a partially obstructed flea foregut and that EPT and BDT can sometimes temporally overlap. The relative insolubility of the hemoglobin of rats and Sciurids and the slower digestion of their blood appears to promote regurgitative transmission, which may be one reason why these rodents are particularly prominent in plague ecology.'
 'Retroviruses are a group of viruses that integrate their genetic material into the host genome. Some of these integrated viruses are defective and do not produce infectious virus particles, but they can still be transmitted from generation to generation. These defective viruses are called endogenous retroviruses (ERVs). It is thought that some ERVs may have evolved to protect the host from infection by related exogenous retroviruses. Sheep are an interesting model system to study this coevolution because they have both endogenous and exogenous retroviruses. In this study, the authors isolated and characterized 27 ERVs from sheep. They found that two of these ERVs, enJSRV-20 and enJS56A1, have a defective Gag protein that makes them transdominant, meaning they can block the replication of related exogenous retroviruses. These two transdominant ERVs became fixed in the sheep genome before or around the time of sheep domestication. The authors also found that some ERVs have recently invaded the sheep genome and that some ERVs can escape the transdominant ERVs. These findings suggest that there is an ongoing coevolution between the host and the retroviruses.'
 'The Drosophila embryonic gonad is assembled from two distinct cell types, the Primordial Germ Cells (PGCs) and the Somatic Gonadal Precursor cells (SGPs). The PGCs form at the posterior of blastoderm stage embryos and are subsequently carried inside the embryo during gastrulation. To reach the SGPs, the PGCs must traverse the midgut wall and then migrate through the mesoderm. A combination of local repulsive cues and attractive signals emanating from the SGPs guide migration. We have investigated the role of the hedgehog (hh) pathway gene shifted (shf) in directing PGC migration. shf encodes a secreted protein that facilitates the long distance transmission of Hh through the proteoglycan matrix after it is released from basolateral membranes of Hh expressing cells in the wing imaginal disc. shf is expressed in the gonadal mesoderm, and loss- and gain-of-function experiments demonstrate that it is required for PGC migration. Previous studies have established that the hmgcr-dependent isoprenoid biosynthetic pathway plays a pivotal role in generating the PGC attractant both by the SGPs and by other tissues when hmgcr is ectopically expressed. We show that production of this PGC attractant depends upon shf as well as a second hh pathway gene gγ1. Further linking the PGC attractant to Hh, we present evidence indicating that ectopic expression of hmgcr in the nervous system promotes the release/transmission of the Hh ligand from these cells into and through the underlying mesodermal cell layer, where Hh can contact migrating PGCs. Finally, potentiation of Hh by hmgcr appears to depend upon cholesterol modification.'
 'In this study, we extended our previous model of adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus to include realistic, spatially driven input firing patterns in the entorhinal cortex. We compared network performance across a sequence of spatial environments using three distinct adaptation strategies: conventional synaptic plasticity, neuronal turnover, and additive neurogenesis. We confirmed that additive neurogenesis is a superior adaptation strategy when using realistic, spatially structured input patterns. We then showed that a more biologically plausible neurogenesis rule that incorporates cell death and enhanced plasticity of new granule cells has an overall performance significantly better than any one of the three individual strategies operating alone. We also examined the time course of adult neurogenesis over the lifetime of an animal raised under different hypothetical rearing conditions. These growth profiles have several distinct features that form a theoretical prediction that could be tested experimentally. Finally, we showed that place cells can emerge and refine in a realistic manner in our model as a direct result of the sparsification performed by the dentate gyrus layer.'
 'This study aimed to identify genes upregulated in pluripotent cells both in vitro and in vivo, and to predict short DNA motifs that regulate gene expression. We found that genes upregulated in pluripotent cells are enriched for roles in transcription, chromatin remodeling, cell cycle, and DNA repair. We developed a novel computational algorithm, CompMoby, which combines analyses of sequences both aligned and non-aligned between different genomes with a probabilistic segmentation model to systematically predict short DNA motifs that regulate gene expression. We show that the motifs are preferentially active in undifferentiated mouse ES and embryonic germ cells in a sequence-specific manner, and that they can act as enhancers in the context of an endogenous promoter. Importantly, the activity of the motifs is conserved in human ES cells. We further show that the transcription factor NF-Y specifically binds to one of the motifs, is differentially expressed during ES cell differentiation, and is required for ES cell proliferation. This study provides novel insights into the transcriptional regulatory networks of pluripotent cells.'
 'Hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) is a single-stranded positive RNA virus that causes chronic liver disease and is a leading cause of liver cancer. The current model of HCV production involves the assembly of virions on or near the surface of lipid droplets, envelopment at the ER in association with components of VLDL synthesis, and egress via the secretory pathway. However, the cellular requirements for and a mechanistic understanding of HCV secretion are incomplete. In this study, we combined an RNA interference ( RNAi ) analysis of host factors for infectious HCV secretion with the development of live cell imaging of HCV core trafficking to gain a detailed understanding of HCV egress. RNAi studies identified multiple components of the secretory pathway, including ER to Golgi trafficking, lipid and protein kinases that regulate budding from the trans-Golgi network ( TGN ) , VAMP1 vesicles and adaptor proteins, and the recycling endosome. Our results support a model wherein HCV is infectious upon envelopment at the ER and exits the cell via the secretory pathway. We next constructed infectious HCV with a tetracysteine ( TC ) tag insertion in core ( TC-core ) to monitor the dynamics of HCV core trafficking in association with its cellular cofactors. In order to isolate core protein movements associated with infectious HCV secretion, only trafficking events that required the essential HCV assembly factor NS2 were quantified. TC-core traffics to the cell periphery along microtubules and this movement can be inhibited by nocodazole. Sub-populations of TC-core localize to the Golgi and co-traffic with components of the recycling endosome. Silencing of the recycling endosome component Rab11a results in the accumulation of HCV core at the Golgi. The majority of dynamic core traffics in association with apolipoprotein E ( ApoE ) and VAMP1 vesicles. This study identifies many new host cofactors of HCV egress, while presenting dynamic studies of HCV core trafficking in infected cells.'
 'This study uses molecular dynamics simulations to analyze the conformational behavior of two synthetic peptides, LKKLLKLLKKLLKL (LK) and EAALAEALAEALAE (EALA), with built-in secondary amphiphilicity upon forming an alpha-helix. The peptides are neither random coils in bulk water nor fully formed alpha helices, but adopt multiple conformations and secondary structure elements with short lifetimes. These provide a basis for conformation-selection and population-shift upon environmental changes. Differences in these peptides’ response to macroscopic and molecular interfaces (presented by an aggregation partner) can be linked to their inherent alpha-helical tendencies in bulk water. The peptides’ aggregation behavior is also strongly affected by presence or absence of an interface, and rather subtly depends on their surface charge and hydrophobicity. The study provides insight into the conformational behavior of amyloidogenic peptides and their aggregation at interfaces, which is relevant for understanding the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases.'
 'This study used a mouse model of pneumococcal colonization, disease, and transmission to identify vulnerable points in the multiple stages involved in pneumococcal pathogenesis. The findings revealed that in the setting of influenza A (IAV) co-infection, the organism must pass through single cell bottlenecks during bloodstream invasion from the nasopharynx within the host and in transmission between hosts. These bottlenecks were not associated with genetic adaptation by the pathogen. The bottleneck in transmission occurred between bacterial exit from one host and establishment in another, explaining why the number of shed organisms in secretions is critical to overcoming it. These observations demonstrate how viral infection and TLR-dependent innate immune responses it stimulates and that are required to control it, drive bacterial contagion.'
 'HIV is known to spread efficiently both in a cell-free state and from cell to cell, but the relative importance of these two transmission modes in natural infection has not yet been resolved. Here we report on neutralizing antibody activity during cell-cell transmission using specifically tailored experimental strategies that enable unambiguous discrimination between the two transmission routes. We demonstrate that the activity of neutralizing monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) and entry inhibitors during cell-cell transmission varies depending on their mode of action. While gp41 directed agents remain active, CD4 binding site (CD4bs) directed inhibitors, including the potent neutralizing mAb VRC01, dramatically lose potency during cell-cell transmission. This implies that CD4bs mAbs act preferentially through blocking free virus transmission, while still allowing HIV to spread through cell-cell contacts. Thus providing a plausible explanation for how HIV maintains infectivity and rapidly escapes potent and broadly active CD4bs directed antibody responses in vivo. Our comprehensive in vitro analysis of inhibitor activity during cell-free and cell-cell virus transmission provides a necessary first step towards the definition of the in vivo relevance of the respective transmission modes and ensuing requirements for their inhibition by vaccine induced antibody responses and entry inhibitors.'
 'Genetic risk prediction models are becoming increasingly popular in the field of complex diseases. However, it is important to evaluate the performance of these models using appropriate statistical measures. In this study, we developed a novel unifying statistical framework that connects a variety of predictive indices together. We showed that, given the overall disease probability and the level of variance in total liability explained by the genetic variants, we can estimate analytically a large variety of prediction metrics, such as the AUC, the mean risk difference between cases and non-cases, the net reclassification improvement, the proportion of cases explained by a specific percentile of population at the highest risk, the variance of predicted risks, and the risk at any percentile. We also demonstrated how to construct graphs to visualize the performance of risk models, such as the ROC curve, the density of risks, and the predictiveness curve. The results from simulations match very well with our theoretical estimates. Finally, we applied the methodology to nine complex diseases, evaluating the predictive power of genetic tests based on known susceptibility variants for each trait.'
 'The Saccharomyces cerevisiae RAD3 gene is the homolog of human XPD , an essential gene encoding a DNA helicase of the TFIIH complex involved in both nucleotide excision repair ( NER ) and transcription . Some mutant alleles of RAD3 ( rad3-101 and rad3-102 ) have partial defects in DNA repair and a strong hyper-recombination ( hyper-Rec ) phenotype . Previous studies showed that the hyper-Rec phenotype associated with rad3-101 and rad3-102 can be explained as a consequence of persistent single-stranded DNA gaps that are converted to recombinogenic double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) by replication . The systems previously used to characterize the hyper-Rec phenotype of rad3 strains do not detect the reciprocal products of mitotic recombination . We have further characterized these events using a system in which the reciprocal products of mitotic recombination are recovered . Both rad3-101 and rad3-102 elevate the frequency of reciprocal crossovers about 100-fold . Mapping of these events shows that three-quarters of these crossovers reflect DSBs formed at the same positions in both sister chromatids ( double sister-chromatid breaks , DSCBs ) . The remainder reflects DSBs formed in single chromatids ( single chromatid breaks , SCBs ) . The ratio of DSCBs to SCBs is similar to that observed for spontaneous recombination events in wild-type cells . We mapped 216 unselected genomic alterations throughout the genome including crossovers , gene conversions , deletions , and duplications . We found a significant association between the location of these recombination events and regions with elevated gamma-H2AX . In addition , there was a hotspot for deletions and duplications at the IMA2 and HXT11 genes near the left end of chromosome XV . A comparison of these data with our previous analysis of spontaneous mitotic recombination events suggests that a sub-set of spontaneous events in wild-type cells may be initiated by incomplete NER reactions , and that DSCBs , which cannot be repaired by sister-chromatid recombination , are a major source of mitotic recombination between homologous chromosomes .'
 'A proposed budget cut to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) funding for mosquito-borne diseases such as dengue and West Nile virus could leave the country unprepared to handle new emerging diseases and manage existing ones. In this study, we used a mathematical model to evaluate the impact of delayed control responses to dengue epidemics in an economically developed urban environment. We coupled the results of our model with mosquito surveillance and case management costs to estimate the cumulative costs of each response scenario. Our study shows that halting mosquito surveillance can increase the management costs of epidemics by up to an order of magnitude in comparison to a strategy with sustained surveillance and early case detection. Our analysis provides a science-based justification for the re-assessment of the current proposal to slash the budget of the CDC vector-borne diseases program and emphasizes the need for improved and sustainable systems for vector-borne disease surveillance.'
 'Insulator elements are DNA sequences that regulate interactions between promoters and enhancers by preventing inappropriate enhancer/promoter communication. In Drosophila, CTCF is a DNA-binding protein that has been shown to be essential for the enhancer blocking activity of several vertebrate insulators. In this study, the authors used chromatin immunopurification coupled with genomic microarray analysis to identify CTCF binding sites within representative regions of the Drosophila genome, including the 3-Mb Adh region, the BX-C, and the Antennapedia complex. They found that CTCF binding sites in the BX-C map precisely to the known insulator elements Mcp, Fab-6, and Fab-8, and that other CTCF binding sites correlate with boundaries of regulatory domains. The authors suggest that the functioning of these insulators involves a common CTCF-dependent mechanism. Their findings provide support for the domain model of BX-C regulation and suggest that CTCF is directly associated with all known or predicted insulators in the BX-C, except for Fab-7. The authors also identified CTCF binding sites between the regulatory regions bxd/pbx and iab-2, between iab-2 and iab-3, and between iab-3 and iab-4, providing both a localisation of the previously postulated boundary regions of “Fab-2”, “Fab-3”, and “Fab-4” and a demonstration that these too bind CTCF. The authors suggest that the CTCF binding sites identified in Drosophila are similar to the vertebrate CTCF consensus sequence, and that this vertebrate CTCF consensus is similar to the Drosophila site identified in this study. The authors conclude that their findings provide evidence for a conserved role for CTCF in insulator function across species.'
 'Ebolaviruses are highly lethal zoonotic pathogens that possess longer genomes than most other non-segmented negative-strand RNA viruses due to long 5′ and 3′ untranslated regions ( UTRs ) present in the seven viral transcriptional units. To date, specific functions have not been assigned to these UTRs. With reporter assays, we demonstrated that the Zaire ebolavirus ( EBOV ) 5′-UTRs lack internal ribosomal entry site function. However, the 5′-UTRs do differentially regulate cap-dependent translation when placed upstream of a GFP reporter gene. Most dramatically, the 5′-UTR derived from the viral polymerase ( L ) mRNA strongly suppressed translation of GFP compared to a β-actin 5′-UTR. The L uAUG is one of four viral genes to possess upstream AUGs ( uAUGs ), and ablation of each uAUG enhanced translation of the primary ORF ( pORF ), most dramatically in the case of the L 5′-UTR. The L uAUG was sufficient to initiate translation, is surrounded by a “weak” Kozak sequence and suppressed pORF translation in a position-dependent manner. Under conditions where eIF2α was phosphorylated, the presence of the uORF maintained translation of the L pORF, indicating that the uORF modulates L translation in response to cellular stress. To directly address the role of the L uAUG in virus replication, a recombinant EBOV was generated in which the L uAUG was mutated to UCG. Strikingly, mutating two nucleotides outside of previously-defined protein coding and cis-acting regulatory sequences attenuated virus growth to titers 10–100-fold lower than a wild-type virus in Vero and A549 cells. The mutant virus also exhibited decreased viral RNA synthesis as early as 6 hours post-infection and enhanced sensitivity to the stress inducer thapsigargin. Cumulatively, these data identify novel mechanisms by which EBOV regulates its polymerase expression, demonstrate their relevance to virus replication, and identify a potential therapeutic target.'
 'Rabies is a deadly disease caused by a neurotropic RNA virus. Two clinical forms of rabies occur in humans and dogs: furious and paralytic. The furious form is characterized by limbic symptoms, while the paralytic form is characterized by lower motor neuron weakness. Studies have shown that the paralytic form has a slower rate of viral propagation than the furious form. In this study, the amount of rabies viral antigen in cell processes was quantitatively assessed in a cohort of naturally rabies-infected non-vaccinated dogs. The results showed that the amount of viral antigen in cell processes decreased in a rostral direction, following the pattern for the amount of viral antigen in neuronal cell bodies and the percentage of involved cell bodies. However, there was a delay in cell process involvement following cell body involvement, consistent with replication occurring in the cell body region and subsequent transport out to cell processes. Greater amounts of antigen were seen in cell processes in dogs with the furious compared to paralytic form, at all anatomic levels examined. These findings suggest that intracellular transport of the virus may be slower in the paralytic form, resulting in slower viral propagation. Possible mechanisms might involve host-specific differences in intracellular virus transport.'
14-3-3 proteins are able to bind phosphorylated proteins and play an undefined role under DNA replication stress. Exonuclease 1 ( Exo1 ) processes stalled replication forks in checkpoint-defective yeast cells. We now identify 14-3-3 proteins as in vivo interaction partners of Exo1 , both in yeast and mammalian cells. Yeast 14-3-3–deficient cells fail to induce Mec1–dependent Exo1 hyperphosphorylation and accumulate Exo1–dependent ssDNA gaps at stalled forks , as revealed by electron microscopy. This leads to persistent checkpoint activation and exacerbated recovery defects. Moreover , using DNA bi-dimensional electrophoresis , we show that 14-3-3 proteins promote fork progression under limiting nucleotide concentrations. We propose that 14-3-3 proteins assist in controlling the phosphorylation status of Exo1 and additional unknown targets , promoting fork progression , stability , and restart in response to DNA replication stress .
 'Sindbis virus (SINV) is a mosquito-borne virus that causes arthritis in humans. It has been reported to occur in northern Europe, but the frequency of outbreaks is not well understood. In this study, we analyzed mosquito abundance and SINV prevalence in vector mosquitoes from an endemic area in central Sweden. We found that SINV-I prevalence in vector mosquitoes increased significantly in 2002, the year that has been referred to as an outbreak year in scientific papers. Our findings suggest that increased SINV-I prevalence in vector mosquitoes constitutes the most valuable outbreak marker for further scrutinizing the hypothesized seven-year cycle of SINV-I outbreaks and the mechanisms behind.'
 'In this study, we used transcriptional profiling to identify genes that are differentially expressed in response to different bacteria isolated in association with grassland nematodes or from grassland soils. We then used mutations that inactivate 21 of the identified genes to show that most contribute to lifespan and/or fitness in a given bacterial environment. We also used regression analysis to demonstrate that for many genes the degree of differential gene expression between two bacterial environments predicted the magnitude of the effect of the loss of gene function on life history traits in those environments. Our results demonstrate that the functions of many of the genes specifically induced in response to different bacteria contribute to nematode fitness and lifespan in those bacterial environments. Furthermore, for specific genes, the extent of differential gene expression between bacterial environments was correlated with the degree of the effect of mutations in those genes on life history traits in those environments. Thus we propose that examination of differential gene expression in different environments allows for prediction of degree of mutational effects of those genes in those environments. Our results also uncover new phenotypes for previously studied genes and genes that had not been shown to have obvious phenotypes under standard laboratory conditions, perhaps adding to our understanding of the C . elegans genome.'
 'Centromeres are the attachment points between the genome and the cytoskeleton: centromeres bind to kinetochores, which in turn bind to spindles and move chromosomes . The DNA sequence of centromeres has little or no role in perpetuating kinetochores . As such they are striking examples of genetic information being transmitted in a manner that is independent of DNA sequence (epigenetically) . It has been found that RNA transcribed from centromeres remains bound within the kinetochore region, and this local population of RNA is thought to be part of the epigenetic marking system. Here we carried out a genetic and biochemical study of maize CENPC, a key inner kinetochore protein. We show that DNA binding is conferred by a localized region 122 amino acids long, and that the DNA-binding reaction is exquisitely sensitive to single-stranded RNA. Long, single-stranded nucleic acids strongly promote the binding of CENPC to DNA, and the types of RNAs that stabilize DNA binding match in size and character the RNAs present on kinetochores in vivo. Removal or replacement of the binding module with HIV integrase binding domain causes a partial delocalization of CENPC in vivo. The data suggest that centromeric RNA helps to recruit CENPC to the inner kinetochore by altering its DNA binding characteristics. These findings provide a biochemical mechanism for the involvement of RNA in centromere specification.'
 'Humans are diploid, meaning they have two sets of chromosomes, one inherited from each parent. However, most human genome sequencing projects do not phase the genome, meaning they do not determine which chromosome carries which variant. This can lead to incorrect conclusions about the inheritance of variants and their potential impact on disease. In this study, we compared 11 different methods for phasing human genomes, including laboratory-based methods and computational methods. We found that a hybrid approach, combining computational methods with parental genotype information, is the most accurate and efficient way to phase a human genome. This approach can help researchers better understand the inheritance of variants and their potential impact on disease.'
 'In contrast to HIV infection in humans and SIV infection in macaques, SIV infection of natural hosts including sooty mangabeys (SM) is non-pathogenic despite robust virus replication. We identified a novel SM CCR5 allele containing a two base pair deletion ( Δ2 ) encoding a truncated molecule that is not expressed on the cell surface and does not support SIV entry in vitro. The allele was present at a 26% frequency in a large SM colony, along with 3% for a CCR5Δ24 deletion allele that also abrogates surface expression. Overall, 8% of animals were homozygous for defective CCR5 alleles and 41% were heterozygous. The mutant allele was also present in wild SM in West Africa. CD8+ and CD4+ T cells displayed a gradient of CCR5 expression across genotype groups, which was highly significant for CD8+ cells. Remarkably, the prevalence of natural SIVsmm infection was not significantly different in animals lacking functional CCR5 compared to heterozygous and homozygous wild-type animals. Furthermore, animals lacking functional CCR5 had robust plasma viral loads, which were only modestly lower than wild-type animals. SIVsmm entry through alternative pathways in vivo raises the possibility of novel CCR5-negative target cells that may be more expendable than CCR5+ cells and enable the virus to replicate efficiently without causing disease in the face of extremely restricted CCR5 expression seen in SM and several other natural host species. SIVsmm entry through alternative pathways in vivo also raises the possibility of novel CCR5-negative target cells that may be more expendable than CCR5+ cells and enable the virus to replicate efficiently without causing disease in the face of extremely restricted CCR5 expression seen in SM and several other natural host species.'
 'In this study, we investigated the relationship between insulin signaling and attractiveness in the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster. We found that insulin signaling in the fat body and ovarian follicle cells affects female attractiveness, while insulin signaling in the fat body and ovarian follicle cells affects male attractiveness. We also found that insulin signaling in the fat body and ovarian follicle cells affects fecundity in the opposite direction. Furthermore, we found that the cues that reflect insulin signaling activity are distinct in the fat body and ovarian follicle cells. Our findings suggest that insulin signaling activity is a reliable link between fecundity and attractiveness cues in Drosophila melanogaster.'
 'Breast cancers that are "triple-negative" for the clinical markers ESR1 , PGR , and HER2 typically belong to the Basal-like molecular subtype . Defective Rb , p53 , and Brca1 pathways are each associated with triple-negative and Basal-like subtypes. Our mouse genetic studies demonstrate that the combined inactivation of Rb and p53 pathways is sufficient to suppress the physiological cell death of mammary involution. Furthermore, concomitant inactivation of all three pathways in mammary epithelium has an additive effect on tumor latency and predisposes highly penetrant, metastatic adenocarcinomas. The tumors are poorly differentiated and have histologic features that are common among human Brca1-mutated tumors, including heterogeneous morphology, metaplasia, and necrosis. Gene expression analyses demonstrate that the tumors share attributes of both Basal-like and Claudin-low signatures, two molecular subtypes encompassed by the broader, triple-negative class defined by clinical markers. ', Introduction: 'Breast cancers classified as "triple-negative" by clinical diagnostic markers (ESR1 , PGR , and HER2 negative) are heterogeneous in their clinical behavior, morphology, and molecular biology. Triple-negative breast cancers (TNBCs) typically express the Basal-like molecular signature, thus TNBCs and Basal cancer classifications are frequently used interchangeably. However, they are not completely synonymous [1] , [2] . TNBCs also include the Claudin-low molecular subtype, which is characterized by greatly reduced expression of intercellular junction components and by activation of molecular pathways associated with epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) , cancer stem cells , and the immune response [4] . Histologically, most triple-negative breast cancers are invasive ductal carcinomas, but TNBCs also include the metaplastic , medullary , and adenocystic histologic special types, distinctive morphologies that are prevalent among Claudin-low tumors [4] . TNBCs are insensitive to endocrine therapy and HER2 antagonists, but they are sensitive to chemotherapy. Nevertheless, long-term patient outcomes are poor due to high rates of relapse and acquired chemoresistance [5] , [6] . Mouse models that mimic the complexity of TNBC will be invaluable tools for defining the diverse cellular biology and behavior of these tumors and for rigorously triaging new drug candidates. Basal-like breast cancers often simultaneously inactivate three tumor suppressors that are infamous for their roles in familial cancers: Rb ( RB1 ) [7] , p53 ( TP53 ) [8] , and BRCA1 [9] . p53 is mutated in 20–30% of human breast cancers and defective pathway intermediates also increase breast cancer risk [10] . Moreover, nearly all Basal-like cancers with BRCA1 mutation have concomitant p53 mutation [11] . Germline BRCA1 mutation predisposes early-onset breast cancers that are often triple-negative and that correlate with Basal-like tumors in microarray analyses [9] . BRCA1 also functions as a transcription factor [14] that appears to be required for the differentiation of stem/progenitor cells into mature luminal cells [15] . This finding is consistent with the recent characterization of BRCA1-associated tumors as aberrant luminal progenitor cells [16] . The pair-wise cooperativity of Brca1 and p53 inactivation in mammary tumorigenesis has been studied in mouse models [17] . We and others have investigated the impact of combined Rb and p53 inactivation on mammary tumorigenesis in vivo [18]–[20] . We showed that following Rb perturbation in vivo , tumor progression is limited largely by p53-dependent apoptosis , and that loss of the second p53 allele in MFT121+/p53f/+ tumors is likely a prerequisite for mammary tumor progression [19] , since the vast majority of tumors lose the wild type p53 allele during tumorigenesis . In the context of a brain car
 'Legionella pneumophila is a gram-negative bacterium that causes Legionnaires' disease in humans. The bacterium is able to replicate in a wide variety of phagocytic cells, including amoebae and macrophages. The Dot/Icm type IV secretion system is an essential virulence determinant that translocates L. pneumophila effector proteins into host cells during infection. These effector proteins control host cell functions to initiate trafficking of the L. pneumophila vacuole, promote host cell survival, modulate innate immune responses, and promote bacterial egress. The U-box protein LubX is an effector protein that functions as a negative temporal regulator of the effector protein SidH within host cells. This is the first example of a bacterial effector that targets and regulates a cognate effector within the host cells, and we propose the designation "metaeffector" for this class of bacterial effectors.'
 'In this study, we investigated the importance of protein concentrations and global physiological effects in the inference of regulatory interactions from time-series transcriptome data. We used a combination of models and experiments to study the FliA-FlgM module of the E . coli motility network. We found that the use of promoter activities instead of protein concentrations led to incorrect inference of regulatory interactions. However, the inclusion of global physiological effects improved the quality of the inferred models. We also estimated protein concentrations from promoter activities and found that this improved the fit of the quantitative model to the data. Our results suggest that the inclusion of protein concentrations and global physiological effects is important for accurate inference of regulatory interactions from time-series transcriptome data.'
 'Soil-transmitted helminths ( STHs ) are a group of parasitic worms that affect more than a billion people worldwide. The most common STHs are Ascaris lumbricoides , Trichuris trichiura , and hookworms. These parasites can cause anemia, growth stunting, and cognitive impairment. The current strategy for controlling STH infections is preventive chemotherapy, which involves repeated administration of anthelmintic drugs to at-risk populations. However, this strategy does not prevent reinfection. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to assess patterns and dynamics of STH reinfection after drug treatment. Our results show that reinfection occurs rapidly after treatment, particularly for Ascaris lumbricoides and Trichuris trichiura. We also found that reinfection prevalence and intensity were positively correlated with pretreatment infection status. These findings highlight the need for frequent anthelmintic drug administrations to maximize the benefit of preventive chemotherapy. Integrated control approaches emphasizing health education and environmental sanitation are needed to interrupt transmission of STHs.'
 'Rabies is a fatal disease that can be prevented with prompt post-exposure prophylaxis ( PEP ). However, access to life-saving vaccines and biologicals is often limited, particularly in low-income countries where the burden of rabies falls. We analyzed different PEP vaccination regimens and found that switching from intramuscular to intradermal delivery would result in significant savings in vaccine volume, which could mitigate shortages and reduce costs. We also presented financing mechanisms that would make PEP more affordable and accessible. We conclude that a universal switch to intradermal delivery would improve the affordability and accessibility of PEP, leading to a likely reduction in human rabies deaths, as well as being economical for healthcare providers.'
 'This study examines the relationship between human T . b . rhodesiense infection and human infective and non-human T . brucei s . l . circulating in cattle at village level in Kaberamaido and Dokolo Districts, Uganda. The study was undertaken in villages that had reported a case of sleeping sickness in the six months prior to sample collection and those villages that had never reported a case of sleeping sickness. The sleeping sickness status of the villages had a significant effect with higher odds of infection in cattle from case than from non-case villages for T . brucei s . l . ( OR: 2 . 94 , 95%CI: 1 . 38–6 . 24 ) . Cattle age had a significant effect ( p<0 . 001 ) on the likelihood of T . brucei s . l . infection within cattle: cattle between 18–36 months ( OR: 3 . 51 , 95%CI: 1 . 63–7 . 51 ) and cattle over 36 months ( OR: 4 . 20 , 95%CI: 2 . 08–8 . 67 ) had significantly higher odds of T . brucei s . l . infection than cattle under 18 months of age . Furthermore , village human sleeping sickness status had a significant effect ( p<0 . 05 ) on the detection of T . b . rhodesiense in the village cattle herd , with significantly higher likelihood of T . b . rhodesiense in the village cattle of case villages ( OR: 25 , 95%CI: 1 . 2–520 . 71 ) . Overall a higher than average T . brucei s . l . prevalence ( >16 . 3% ) in a village herd over was associated with significantly higher likelihood of T . b . rhodesiense being detected in a herd ( OR: 25 , 95%CI: 1 . 2–520 . 71 ) .'
 'Dietary restriction (DR) is a well-known method to extend lifespan in various species. In this study, the authors investigated the role of the hypoxia inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) in lifespan extension by DR in Caenorhabditis elegans. They found that HIF-1 deficiency results in extended lifespan, which overlaps with that by inhibition of the RSKS-1/S6 kinase, a key component of the TOR pathway. Using a modified DR method based on variation of bacterial food concentrations on solid agar plates, they found that HIF-1 modulates longevity in a nutrient-dependent manner. The authors also demonstrated that HIF-1 modulates lifespan extension by DR involving the IRE-1 ER stress pathway. Their findings suggest a tissue-specific role for HIF-1 in the lifespan extension by DR and provide potential targets for treatments of age-associated diseases and the extension of healthful lifespan in humans.'
 'Acetogens are microorganisms that can convert waste gases into multi-carbon commodities. The Wood-Ljungdahlii pathway (WLP) allows acetogens to use either H2 or CO as an electron donor with accompanied reduction of CO2, thereby making WLP the only known CO2-fixing pathway coupled to energy conservation. The unique capability of acetogens to ferment a broad range of substrates makes them ideal candidates for the biotechnological production of commodity chemicals. However, advanced design strategies for acetogens are currently hampered by incomplete knowledge about their physiology and our inability to accurately predict phenotypes. Here, we describe the reconstruction of a novel genome-scale model of metabolism and macromolecular synthesis (ME-model) to gain new insights into the biology of the model acetogen Clostridium ljungdahlii. The model represents the first ME-model of a Gram-positive bacterium and captures all major central metabolic, amino acid, nucleotide, lipid, major cofactors, and vitamin synthesis pathways as well as pathways to synthesis RNA and protein molecules necessary to catalyze these reactions, thus significantly broadens the scope and predictability. Use of the model revealed how protein allocation and media composition influence metabolic pathways and energy conservation in acetogens and accurately predicted secretion of multiple fermentation products. Predicting overflow metabolism is of particular interest since it enables new design strategies, e.g., the formation of glycerol, a novel product for C. ljungdahlii, thus broadening the metabolic capability for this model microbe. Furthermore, prediction and experimental validation of changing secretion rates based on different metal availability opens the window into fermentation optimization and provides new knowledge about the proteome utilization and carbon flux in acetogens. The model provides a robust, genome-wide approach to define how transition metals affect an organism’s functional network, which addresses the need to bridge chemistry and biology in a systematic way. The model accurately predicted secretion of acetate, ethanol, and glycerol during changing carbon and metal availability and revealed how protein allocation and media composition influence metabolic pathways and energy conservation in this model acetogen. The model also provides a framework for the rational manipulation of the WLP and other pathways for improved biotechnological outcomes. The reconstruction of the iJL965-ME model represents a significant advancement in the field of acetogen systems biology and will enable new insights into the physiology of acetogens and the development of new biotechnological applications.'
 'Arabidopsis thaliana cryptochrome 2 ( CRY2 ) is a blue light photoreceptor that controls flowering time by interacting with CIB1, a basic helix-loop-helix ( bHLH ) transcription factor . In this study, the authors identified four additional CIB proteins, CIB2, CIB4, CIB5, and CIB6, that interact with CRY2 and CIB1 in response to blue light. They also found that these CIB proteins form heterodimers with CIB1 and have a higher binding affinity for the non-canonical E-box in the FT promoter in vivo. The authors propose that multiple CIB proteins act redundantly in the CRY2-CIB signal transduction pathway to mediate promotion of floral initiation. They also suggest that the switch from homodimerization to heterodimerization may be responsible for the change in preference for the non-canonical E-box in the FT promoter. The study provides new insights into the mechanisms underlying the CRY2-CIB signal transduction pathway and its role in promoting floral initiation.'
 'Enteric bacterial pathogens cause foodborne disease, which is a major economic and health burden. EHEC is a severe bloody diarrhea-causing pathogen that can lead to HUS, a potentially fatal kidney disease. EHEC and other enteric pathogens use a T3SS to inject virulence proteins (effectors) into host cells. In this study, the authors identified two T3SS effectors, NleH1 and NleH2, that bind to the human ribosomal protein S3 (RPS3), a subunit of NF-κB transcriptional complexes. NleH1 and NleH2 are autophosphorylated Ser/Thr protein kinases, but their binding to RPS3 is independent of kinase activity. NleH1 repressed the transcription of a RPS3/NF-κB-dependent reporter plasmid, while NleH2 stimulated RPS3-dependent transcription. The authors suggest that NleH may disrupt host innate immune responses by binding to a cofactor of host transcriptional complexes. This study provides new insights into the mechanisms by which EHEC and other enteric pathogens disrupt host innate immune responses.'
 'High-altitude hypoxia is a severe physiological stress that has led to unique adaptations in the Andean and Tibetan populations. In this study, we used genome scans to identify genes that show evidence of positive natural selection in these two populations. We found that several key HIF-regulatory and targeted genes are responsible for adaptation to high altitude in Andeans and Tibetans, and several different chromosomal regions are implicated in the putative response to selection. These data suggest a genetic role in high-altitude adaptation and provide a basis for future genotype/phenotype association studies necessary to confirm the role of selection-nominated candidate genes and gene regions in adaptation to altitude.'
 'Machupo virus ( MACV ) is a New World arenavirus that causes Bolivian hemorrhagic fever ( BHF ). We previously reported that a recombinant MACV expressing glycoprotein from the Candid#1 ( Cd#1 ) vaccine strain of Junin virus ( JUNV ) is completely attenuated in a murine model and protects animals from lethal challenge with MACV . In this study, we rescued several recombinant MACVs expressing the ectodomain of GPC from Cd#1 either alone ( MCg1 ), along with the TMD F438I substitution ( MCg2 ), or with the TMD of Cd#1 ( MCg3 ). All rMACVs exhibited similar growth curves in cultured cells. In mice, the MCg1 displayed significant reduction in lethality as compared with rMACV. The MCg1 was detected in brains and spleens of MCg1-infected mice and the infection was associated with tissue inflammation. On the other hand, all animals survived MCg2 and MCg3 infection without detectable levels of virus in various organs while producing neutralizing antibody against Cd#1. Overall, our data suggest the indispensable role of each GPC domain in the full attenuation and immunogenicity of rMACV/Cd#1 GPC.'
 'Dengue is a viral infection transmitted by mosquitoes that causes fever, headache, and joint pain. There are four different types of dengue viruses, and a person can get infected with more than one type. A person who has had one type of dengue virus can become immune to that type, but not to the other three types. This means that a person can get infected with the same type of dengue virus again, which can lead to more severe symptoms. There are several ways to diagnose dengue, including virus isolation, real-time PCR, and serological tests. Serological tests can detect antibodies to the virus, which can be used to determine if a person has had a primary or secondary infection. However, these tests can be difficult to interpret, especially in the early stages of infection. A new test called the Dengue Early Rapid test has been developed that can detect the dengue virus non-structural protein 1 (NS1) antigen in the blood. This test can be used to diagnose dengue infection in the early stages, when antibodies may not be present yet. The test was evaluated in two separate studies in Vietnam and Malaysia. In Vietnam, the sensitivity of the test was 69.2%, and in Malaysia, the sensitivity was 68.9%. When the Dengue Early Rapid test was used in combination with a dengue IgM and IgG rapid test, the sensitivity increased to 93%. These findings suggest that the Dengue Early Rapid test can be a useful tool for diagnosing dengue infection, especially in the early stages of infection. The test can also be used in combination with other tests to improve the accuracy of diagnosis.'
 'Staphylococcus aureus is a common human pathogen that causes a wide variety of infections. The bacterium has a proven ability to adapt to the selective pressure of antibiotics. In this study, the authors identified a Toll/interleukin-1 receptor (TIR) domain protein in S. aureus, called TirS, which interferes with the TLR2-induced MAPK and NF-κB signaling pathway and enhances bacterial survival within the host. The tirS gene was found to be located within a mobile genetic element called SCC476, which is integrated at the same site on the chromosome as SCCmec elements in MRSA. The authors also found that sub-inhibitory concentration of fusidic acid induced overexpression of tirS. They confirmed previous findings that tirS expression induces a negative regulation of the TLR signaling pathway. The authors used a mouse model of skin infection to show that TirS modulates bacterial virulence through attenuation of host inflammatory responses during infection. Their results suggest that TirS may contribute to the ability of S. aureus to survive and establish a critical population size. The study provides new insights into the mechanisms by which S. aureus evades host immune responses and highlights the importance of TIR domain proteins in bacterial pathogenesis.'
 'Protein modifications play a major role in biological processes in living organisms. N-terminal acetylation of proteins is a common modification found throughout the tree of life. In this study, we analyzed the amino-terminal peptides from proteins extracted from Drosophila Kc167 cells and found that N-terminal acetylation occurs in insects with a similar frequency as in humans. We also identified the (X)PX rule that indicates the prevention of acetylation under all circumstances. We used this rule to genetically engineer a protein to study the biological relevance of the presence or absence of an acetyl group. Our study presents a straightforward strategy to systematically study the functional relevance of N-terminal acetylation in cells and whole organisms. Since the (X)PX rule seems to be of general validity in lower as well as higher eukaryotes, we propose that it can be used to study the function of N-terminal acetylation in all species.'
 'Exosomes are small vesicles that are released from cells and contain various proteins, lipids, and RNA molecules. They play important roles in intercellular communication and can be used by viruses to transfer their genetic materials to new cells. In this study, we found that EV71 infection upregulated exosome secretion and resulted in differential packaging of the viral genomic RNA and miR-146a into exosomes. We provided evidence showing that miR-146a was preferentially enriched in exosomes while the viral RNA was not in infected cells. Moreover, the exosomal viral RNA could be transferred to and replicate in a recipient cell while the exosomal miR-146a suppressed type I interferon response in the target cell, thus facilitating the viral replication. We also found that the IFN-stimulated gene factors (ISGs), BST-2/tetherin, were involved in regulating EV71-induced upregulation of exosome secretion. Importantly, in vivo study showed that exosome-containing viral RNA exhibited differential tissue accumulation as compared to the free virus particles. Our findings provide evidence that exosomes secreted by EV71-infected cells selectively packaged high level miR-146a that can be functionally transferred to and facilitate exosomal EV71 RNA to replicate in the recipient cells by suppressing type I interferon response.'
 'Gene expression is a stochastic process that involves the interaction of regulatory elements and the promoter. The interaction between regulatory elements and the promoter can occur in different ways, such as side-by-side loops, nested loops, and alternating loops. These different interaction patterns can affect the mean expression level and the expression noise. In this study, we developed a mechanistic model that maps the three fundamental patterns for two interacting DNA loops into a 4-state model of stochastic transcription. We found that nested loops enhance mRNA expression and reduce expression noise, while alternating loops have the opposite effects. We also compared the effects of facilitated tracking and direct looping on gene expression. We found that the facilitated chromatin–looping hypothesis performs better than the direct looping hypothesis in controlling mean expression and tuning expression noise, but this control or tuning is distance–dependent. Our results suggest that living organisms or cells would use the facilitated–tracking mechanism to deal with information about their environments.'
 'We have developed a framework for analyzing gene transcription networks that explicitly accounts for retroactivity, a phenomenon similar to loading that influences the dynamic performance of a module upon connection to other modules. We have shown that retroactivity can be quantified using three matrices: internal, scaling, and mixing retroactivity. These matrices can be computed from macroscopic parameters and from the modules' topology. We have illustrated implications of internal, scaling, and mixing retroactivity on the performance of recurrent network motifs, including negative autoregulation, combinatorial regulation, two-gene clocks, the toggle switch, and the single-input motif. We have also provided a quantitative metric that determines how robust the dynamic behavior of a module is to interconnection with other modules. This metric can be employed both to evaluate the extent of modularity of natural networks and to establish concrete design guidelines to minimize retroactivity between modules in synthetic systems. Our framework provides a powerful tool for predicting the dynamic behavior of large networks from that of the composing modules, which is central to systems and synthetic biology.'
 'The 5-year survival rate of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients can be as low as 1% in advanced stages. For patients with resectable disease, the successful choice of preoperative chemotherapy is critical to eliminate micrometastasis and improve operability. In the present work, a mechanistic model of cancer response to treatment is applied for the estimation of a plausible value range of the cell killing efficacy of various cisplatin-based doublet regimens. The methodology is based on the provision of tumor volumetric data at two time points, before and after or during treatment. It takes into account the effect of tumor microenvironment and cell repopulation on treatment outcome. A thorough sensitivity analysis based on one-factor-at-a-time and latin hypercube sampling/partial rank correlation coefficient approaches has established the volume growth rate and the growth fraction at diagnosis as key features for more accurate estimates. The methodology is applied on the retrospective data of thirteen patients with NSCLC who received cisplatin in combination with gemcitabine, vinorelbine, or docetaxel in the neoadjuvant context. The selection of model input values has been guided by a comprehensive literature survey on cancer-specific proliferation kinetics. The latin hypercube sampling has been recruited to compensate for patient-specific uncertainties. Concluding, the present work provides a quantitative framework for the estimation of the in-vivo cell-killing ability of various chemotherapies. Correlation studies of such estimates with the molecular profile of patients could serve as a basis for reliable personalized predictions.'
 'The mechanisms and treatment of psychomotor retardation, which includes motor and cognitive impairment, are indefinite. The Allan-Herndon-Dudley syndrome (AHDS) is an X-linked psychomotor retardation characterized by delayed development, severe intellectual disability, muscle hypotonia, and spastic paraplegia, in combination with disturbed thyroid hormone (TH) parameters. AHDS has been associated with mutations in the monocarboxylate transporter 8 (MCT8/SLC16A2) gene, which is a TH transporter. In order to determine the pathophysiological mechanisms of AHDS, MCT8 knockout mice were intensively studied. Although these mice faithfully replicated the abnormal serum TH levels, they failed to exhibit the neurological and behavioral symptoms of AHDS patients. Here, we generated an MCT8 knockout (MCT8−/−) zebrafish using the ZFN-mediated targeted gene editing system. The elimination of MCT8 decreased the expression levels of TH receptors; however, it did not affect the expression of other TH-related genes. Similar to human patients, MCT8−/− larvae exhibited neurological and behavioral deficiencies. High-throughput behavioral assays demonstrated that MCT8−/− larvae exhibited reduced locomotor activity, altered response to external light and dark transitions, and an increase in sleep time. These deficiencies in behavioral performance were associated with altered expression of myelin-related genes and neuron-specific deficiencies in circuit formation. Time-lapse imaging of single-axon arbors and synapses in live MCT8−/− larvae revealed a reduction in filopodia dynamics and axon branching in sensory neurons and decreased synaptic density in motor neurons. These phenotypes enable assessment of the therapeutic potential of three TH analogs that can enter the cells in the absence of MCT8. The TH analogs restored the myelin and axon outgrowth deficiencies in MCT8−/− larvae. These findings suggest a mechanism by which MCT8 regulates neural circuit assembly, ultimately mediating sensory and motor control of behavioral performance. We also propose that the administration of TH analogs early during embryo development can specifically reduce neurological damage in AHDS patients.'
 'Natural selection drives populations towards higher fitness, but crossing fitness valleys or plateaus may facilitate progress up a rugged fitness landscape involving epistasis. We investigate quantitatively the effect of subdividing an asexual population on the time it takes to cross a fitness valley or plateau. We focus on a generic and minimal model that includes only population subdivision into equivalent demes connected by global migration, and does not require significant size changes of the demes, environmental heterogeneity or specific geographic structure. We determine the optimal speedup of valley or plateau crossing that can be gained by subdivision, if the process is driven by the deme that crosses fastest. We show that isolated demes have to be in the sequential fixation regime for subdivision to significantly accelerate crossing. Using Markov chain theory, we obtain analytical expressions for the conditions under which optimal speedup is achieved: valley or plateau crossing by the subdivided population is then as fast as that of its fastest deme. We verify our analytical predictions through stochastic simulations. We demonstrate that subdivision can substantially accelerate the crossing of fitness valleys and plateaus in a wide range of parameters extending beyond the optimal window. We study the effect of varying the degree of subdivision of a population, and investigate the trade-off between the magnitude of the optimal speedup and the width of the parameter range over which it occurs. Our results, obtained for fitness valleys and plateaus, also hold for weakly beneficial intermediate mutations. Finally, we extend our work to the case of a population connected by migration to one or several smaller islands. Our results demonstrate that subdivision with migration alone can significantly accelerate the crossing of fitness valleys and plateaus, and shed light onto the quantitative conditions necessary for this to occur. '
 'The nuclear pore complex ( NPC ) is a crucial gateway for material transport across the nuclear envelope. The transport process is highly dynamic and involves the interaction of karyopherins ( kaps ) with FG-repeat domains of nups. A coarse-grained model of the NPC has been developed to mimic the transport process. The model predicts that the first-passage time of a 15 nm cargo-complex is about 2.6±0.13 ms with an inverse Gaussian distribution for statistically adequate number of independent Brownian dynamics simulations. The cargo-complex is primarily attached to the channel wall where it interacts with the FG-layer as it passes through the central channel. The kap-FG hydrophobic interaction is highly dynamic and fast, ensuring an efficient translocation through the NPC. Almost all eight hydrophobic binding spots on kap-β are occupied simultaneously during transport. The model also shows that cytoplasmic filaments-deficient NPCs show a high degree of permeability to inert cargos, implying the defining role of cytoplasmic filaments in the selectivity barrier. The model can be used to examine different hypotheses about transport as well as examining different factors that alter transport, i.e. changing molecular size, shape, hydrophobicity and so on.'
 'Staphylococcus aureus is a common cause of skin and respiratory infections. Biofilms, communities of bacteria that adhere to surfaces, are often associated with chronic infections. In this study, researchers discovered a new type of extracellular structure in S. aureus biofilms that promotes biofilm integrity. These structures are made up of small peptides called phenol soluble modulins (PSMs) that have amyloid-like properties. Mutants that could not produce PSMs were susceptible to biofilm disassembly by matrix degrading enzymes and mechanical stress. Previous work has associated PSMs with biofilm disassembly, but the researchers found that when PSM peptides aggregate into amyloid-like fibers, their biological activity is altered. This work suggests that PSMs' aggregation into amyloid fibers modulates their role in biofilms and could lead to new approaches in treating persistent biofilm-associated infections.'
 'The Type II Secretion System ( T2SS ) is a molecular machine that drives the secretion of fully-folded protein substrates across the bacterial outer membrane . We have identified three distinct forms of T2SSs based on the sequence characteristics of their secretin pores. Detailed comparative analysis of two of these, the Klebsiella-type and Vibrio-type, showed them to be further distinguished by the pilotin that mediates their transport and assembly into the outer membrane. We have determined the crystal structure of the novel pilotin AspS from Vibrio cholerae, demonstrating convergent evolution wherein AspS is functionally equivalent and yet structurally unrelated to the pilotins found in Klebsiella and other bacteria. AspS binds to a specific targeting sequence in the Vibrio-type secretins, enhances the kinetics of secretin assembly, and homologs of AspS are found in all species of Vibrio as well those few strains of Escherichia and Shigella that have acquired a Vibrio-type T2SS. Our findings reveal that distinct classes of T2SS secretins can be recognized: one represented by the Klebsiella PulD which make use of PulS-OutS pilotins, and one represented by the Vibrio EpsD/GspD that makes use of AspS pilotins. We suggest that E . coli pathotypes that have acquired the Klebsiella-type secretin depend on PulS-OutS pilotins such as EtpO , whereas E . coli pathotypes that have acquired the Vibrio-type secretin depend on the AspS pilotin to assemble a functional T2SS.'
 'Burkholderia pseudomallei is a bacterium that can cause the disease melioidosis in humans. Despite proper diagnosis and prompt therapeutic interventions, mortality rates still range from 20% to 40%. Surprisingly little is known about how B. pseudomallei infects, invades, and survives within its hosts, and virtually nothing is known about the contribution of critical nutrients such as iron to its pathogenesis. In this study, we deleted the major siderophore malleobactin and pyochelin gene clusters in strain 1710b and revealed a residual siderophore activity which was unrelated to other known Burkholderia siderophores such as cepabactin and cepaciachelin, and not due to increased secretion of chelators such as citrate. Deletion of the two hemin uptake loci, hmu and hem, showed that Hmu is required for utilization of hemin and hemoglobin and that Hem cannot complement a Hmu deficiency. Prolonged incubation of a hmu hem mutant in hemoglobin-containing minimal medium yielded variants able to utilize hemoglobin and hemin, suggesting alternate pathways for utilization of these two host iron sources. Lactoferrin utilization was dependent on malleobactin, but not pyochelin synthesis and/or uptake. A mba pch hmu hem quadruple mutant could use ferritin as an iron source and upon intranasal infection was lethal in an acute murine melioidosis model. These data suggest that B. pseudomallei may employ a novel ferritin-iron acquisition pathway as a means to sustain in vivo growth.'
 'In-utero sensitisation to schistosome antigens occurs in up to 50% of offspring born to women with schistosomiasis during pregnancy [1] , [2] . Those who do not show an immune response may not have been exposed to relevant antigen ( due to the placental barrier ) or may have been exposed and developed tolerance . When the baby is sensitised in-utero , profiles of infant responses resemble the mothers' responses: mixed type one , type two cytokine responses and a prominent IL-10 response , as shown by our recent study on cord blood responses to schistosome worm ( SWA ) and egg ( SEA ) [3] and one earlier study [2] . Our study suggested a direct correlation between maternal S . mansoni infection intensity and cord blood T cell sensitisation of the offspring [3] . In communities where schistosomiasis is endemic , an age-dependent build up of immune response and resistance to S . mansoni infection has been described [4] , [5] . There is a possibility that, in addition to this, immune responses established in-utero might influence early childhood responses and resistance to infection . On the other hand , children who are exposed in-utero , but do not become sensitised , may have acquired tolerance to schistosome antigens , which might render them more susceptible to infection , as has been observed among offspring of women with filariasis [6] . In-utero sensitisation to schistosome antigens might also influence schistosomiasis morbidity . For example , the low incidence of the acute schistosomiasis syndrome , Katayama fever [7] , in endemic populations is attributed to early or in-utero sensitisation such that they are able to modulate the immune response and subsequent pathology associated with S . mansoni infection . Balanced type one/type two immune responses are needed to limit morbidity [8] , [9] , [10] , [11] , [12] , and responses established in-utero could influence this balance . Studies in mice support the hypothesis that in-utero anti-idiotypic exposure induces B and T cell responsiveness to schistosome antigens recognised by the idiotype [13] , and that this exposure induces immmunoregulatory effects in subsequent schistosomiasis infection [14] . Recent immunoepidemiological studies in Kenya involving school age children ( 4–17 years ) in S . mansoni endemic areas showed that regulatory cytokines are important in schistosomiasis morbidity [15] , and that dysregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines could be a mechanism involved in childhood hepatosplenomegaly observed in schistosomiasis . It is estimated that in Africa up to 10 million women per year have schistosomiasis during pregnancy [16] , and 40 million women of child-bearing age have schistosomiasis [17] . Here we report results on follow-up of offspring at five years old , exploring the hypothesis that schistosomiasis and its treatment during pregnancy could influence the immune responses of the children when they themselves are exposed to S . mansoni infection . Based on the immunoepidemiological studies that explored association of the various cytokines with S mansoni morbidity [15] , [18] , [19] , we measured IFN , IL-5 , IL-13 and IL-10 responses to schistosome worm ( SWA ) and egg ( SEA ) antigens and regulatory T-cells .'
 'Hox proteins are transcription factors that play a crucial role in controlling morphogenesis along the anterior-posterior body axis of animals. These proteins regulate distinct sets of target genes in a highly localized manner, often only in a single cell. In this study, the authors analyze the regulation of the cell death gene reaper ( rpr ) by the Hox protein Deformed ( Dfd ) and suggest that local activation of rpr expression in the anterior part of the maxillary segment is achieved through a combinatorial interaction of Dfd with at least eight functionally diverse transcriptional regulators on a minimal enhancer. The authors propose that context-dependent combinations of Hox proteins and other transcription factors on small, modular Hox response elements could be responsible for the proper spatio-temporal expression of Hox targets. The study provides evidence for the complex regulatory mechanisms underlying Hox target gene regulation in vivo.'
 'In this paper, we present a novel experimental/computational approach to study the proliferation of cancer cells after treatment. We use time-lapse live cell microscopy and flow cytometry data to model the proliferation process through the cell cycle and subsequent generations during/after treatment. The effects of treatments were modelled with modules describing the functional activity of the main pathways causing arrest, repair, and cell death in each phase. We challenged the method with time-course measures taken in parallel with flow cytometry and time-lapse live cell microscopy in X-ray-treated human ovarian cancer cells, spanning a wide range of doses. The most suitable model of the treatment, including the dose-response of each effect, was progressively built, combining modules with a rational strategy and fitting simultaneously all data of different doses and platforms. The final model gave for the first time the complete rendering in silico of the cycling process following X-ray exposure, providing separate and quantitative measures of the dose-dependence of G1, S, and G2M checkpoint activities in subsequent generations, reconciling known effects of ionizing radiations and new insights in a unique scenario. The method can be applied to other cancer cell lines and treatments, providing a powerful tool for understanding the complex dynamics of cancer cell proliferation after treatment and for designing new therapeutic strategies.'
 'Horizontal gene transfer ( HGT ) is a crucial mechanism by which bacteria increase genetic diversity . However, the incorporation of foreign DNA may constitute a potential perturbation for the regulation of the core genome, resulting in a significant fitness cost. The H-NS protein is an efficient mechanism that enables bacterial cells to control the expression of foreign DNA. Here, we provide evidence that plasmid-encoded H-NS-like proteins have evolved to selectively target HGT and not core genome DNA. In turn, chromosomally-encoded H-NS targets both HGT and core genomic DNA, but differentially modulates them by using Hha-like proteins to specifically silence HGT genes. These findings suggest that in enteric bacteria the H-NS modulator may have evolved to discriminate between vertically and horizontally inherited DNA sequences, efficiently silencing the latter. This feature could provide a fitness advantage by allowing the presence of a large number of silent virulence genes to be available, without interfering with the regulation of the bacterial core genome.'
 'HIV-1 vaccines have failed to elicit neutralizing antibodies ( Nabs ) that can protect against diverse HIV-1 subtypes . To study the development of a strong, cross-reactive Nab response, we examined the post-superinfection ( SI ) Nab responses from 21 Kenyan women who were infected with subtypes A, C, and D and superinfected after a median time of ~1.07 years following initial infection. Plasma samples were collected at a median time point ~2.72 years post-SI. Because previous studies of singly infected populations with broad and potent Nab responses have shown that the majority of their neutralizing activity can be mapped to four main epitopes on the HIV-1 Envelope, we focused on these targets, which include the CD4-binding site, a V1/V2 glycan, the N332 supersite in V3, and the membrane proximal external region of gp41. Using standard epitope mapping techniques, we found that SI did not induce a dominant Nab response to any one of these epitopes in the 21 women. Computational sera delineation analyses also suggested that 20 of the 21 superinfected women’s Nab responses could not be ascribed a single specificity with high confidence. These data are consistent with a model in which SI with diverse subtypes promotes the development of a broad polyclonal Nab response, and thus would provide support for vaccine designs using multivalent HIV immunogens to elicit a diverse repertoire of Nabs.'
 'Linear mixed models ( LMMs ) have been proposed as a powerful tool for analyzing genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) in populations with unknown or uncertain relationships. In this study, we compared the performance of several LMM approaches ( and software implementations ) via their application to a GWAS of visceral leishmaniasis in 348 Brazilian families comprising 3626 individuals ( 1972 genotyped ). The implementations differ in precise details of methodology implemented and through various user-chosen options such as the method and number of SNPs used to estimate the kinship matrix. We investigated sensitivity to these choices and the success ( or otherwise ) of the approaches in controlling the overall genome-wide error-rate for both real and simulated phenotypes. We compared the LMM results to those obtained using traditional family-based association tests ( based on transmission of alleles within pedigrees ) and to alternative approaches implemented in the software packages MQLS , ROADTRIPS and MASTOR. We found strong concordance between the results from different LMM approaches , and all are successful in controlling the genome-wide error rate ( except for some approaches when applied naively to longitudinal data with many repeated measures ) . We also found high correlation between LMMs and alternative approaches ( apart from transmission-based approaches when applied to SNPs with small or non-existent effects ). We conclude that LMM approaches perform well in comparison to competing approaches . Given their strong concordance , in most applications , the choice of precise LMM implementation cannot be based on power/type I error considerations but must instead be based on considerations such as speed and ease-of-use .'
 'Transient associations among neurons are thought to underlie memory and behavior. However, little is known about how such associations occur or how they can be identified. Here we recorded ongoing local field potential (LFP) activity at multiple sites within the cortex of awake monkeys and organotypic cultures of cortex. We show that when the composite activity of a local neuronal group exceeds a threshold, its activity pattern, as reflected in the LFP, occurs without distortion at other cortex sites via fast synaptic transmission. These large-amplitude LFPs, which we call coherence potentials, extend up to hundreds of milliseconds and mark periods of loss-less spread of temporal and amplitude information much like action potentials at the single-cell level. However, coherence potentials have an additional degree of freedom in the diversity of their waveforms, which provides a high-dimensional parameter for encoding information and allows identification of particular associations. Such nonlinear behavior is analogous to the spread of ideas and behaviors in social networks.'
 'In yeast, polarized growth is maintained by both polarized exocytosis and endocytosis. Despite functional links between these two transport pathways, they are generally considered to be separate events. Using live cell imaging, in vivo and in vitro protein binding assays, and in vitro pyrene-actin polymerization assays, we show that the yeast Rab GTPase Sec4p couples polarized exocytosis with cortical actin polymerization, which induces endocytosis. After polarized exocytosis to the plasma membrane, Sec4p binds Las17/Bee1p (yeast Wiskott—Aldrich Syndrome protein) in a complex with Sla1p and Sla2p during actin patch assembly. Mutations that inactivate Sec4p or its guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) Sec2p inhibit actin patch formation, whereas the activating sec4-Q79L mutation accelerates patch assembly. In vitro assays of Arp2/3-dependent actin polymerization established that GTPγS-Sec4p overrides Sla1p inhibition of Las17p-dependent actin nucleation. These results support a model in which Sec4p relocates along the plasma membrane from polarized sites of exocytic vesicle fusion to nascent sites of endocytosis. Activated Sec4p then promotes actin polymerization and triggers compensatory endocytosis, which controls surface expansion and kinetically refines cell polarization.'
 'Miltefosine is an anti-cancer drug that has been successfully repositioned for treatment of Leishmania infections and recently also shown promising effects against Schistosoma spp targeting all life cycle stages of the parasite . In the current study, we examined the effect of treating S. mansoni adult worms with miltefosine on exposure of worm surface antigens in vitro . We found that rabbit antibodies that recognised surface antigens exposed on miltefosine-treated worms were recovered by elution off the worm surface in low pH buffer and were used in a western immunoblotting assay to identify antigenic targets in a homogenate extract of adult worms ( SmWH ). Four proteins reacting with the antibodies in immunoblots were purified and proteomic analysis ( MS/MS ) combined with specific immunoblotting indicated they were the S. mansoni proteins: fructose-1 , 6 bisphosphate aldolase ( SmFBPA ) , Sm22 . 6 , alkaline phosphatase and malate dehydrogenase . These antibodies were also found to bind to the surface of 3-hour schistosomula and induce immune agglutination of the parasites , suggesting they may have a role in immune protection . This study reveals a novel mode of action of miltefosine as an anti-schistosome agent . The immune-dependent hypothesis we investigated has previously been lent credence with praziquantel ( PZQ ) , whereby treatment unmasks parasite surface antigens not normally exposed to the host during infection . Antigens involved in this molecular mechanism could have potential as intervention targets and antibodies against these antigens may act to increase the drug’s anti-parasite efficacy and be involved in the development of resistance to re-infection .'
 'In neurons, polarized trafficking of vesicle-bound membrane proteins gives rise to the distinct molecular composition and functional properties of axons and dendrites. Despite their central role in shaping neuronal form and function, surprisingly little is known about the molecular processes that mediate polarized targeting of neuronal proteins. Here we show that Myosin VI, a minus-end-directed motor, plays a vital role in the enrichment of proteins on the surface of axons. Engineering non-neuronal proteins to interact with Myosin VI causes them to become highly concentrated at the axonal surface in dissociated rat cortical neurons. Furthermore, disruption of either Myosin VI function or expression leads to aberrant dendritic localization of axonal proteins. Myosin VI mediates the enrichment of proteins on the axonal surface at least in part by stimulating dendrite-specific endocytosis, a mechanism that has been shown to underlie the localization of many axonal proteins. In addition, a version of Channelrhodopsin 2 that was engineered to bind to Myosin VI is concentrated at the surface of the axon of cortical neurons in mice in vivo, suggesting that it could be a useful tool for probing circuit structure and function. Together, our results indicate that myosins help shape the polarized distributions of both axonal and dendritic proteins.'
 'The stability of ecosystems has been a topic of interest for decades, with the assumption that complexity begets stability being a widely held belief. However, recent work has challenged this assumption, showing that equilibrium feasibility vanishes in species-rich systems. This means that the existence of a stable equilibrium, which is a prerequisite for local stability analysis, is far from guaranteed. The work also shows that the stability of ecologically-inspired networks is highly dependent on the interaction structure and intensity. The authors suggest that a general understanding of ecosystem dynamics requires focusing on the interplay between interaction strength and network architecture.'
 'Vibrio cholerae is a bacterial pathogen that causes diarrhea in humans and colonizes the chitinous exoskeleton of zooplankton. The N-acetylglucosamine binding protein ( GbpA ) mediates bacterial attachment to both marine chitin and mammalian intestinal mucin through an unknown molecular mechanism. We report structural studies that reveal that GbpA possesses an unusual, elongated four-domain structure, with domains 1 and 4 showing structural homology to chitin binding domains. A glycan screen revealed that GbpA binds to GlcNAc oligosaccharides. Structure-guided GbpA truncation mutants show that domains 1 and 4 of GbpA interact with chitin in vitro, whereas in vivo complementation studies reveal that domain 1 is also crucial for mucin binding and intestinal colonization. Bacterial binding studies show that domains 2 and 3 bind to the V . cholerae surface. Finally, mouse virulence assays show that only the first three domains of GbpA are required for colonization. These results explain how GbpA provides structural/functional modular interactions between V . cholerae, intestinal epithelium, and chitinous exoskeletons.'
 'Sulforaphane (SFN), a natural product found in cruciferous vegetables, has been shown to have health benefits. In this study, the authors found that SFN blocks HIV infection in primary macrophages but not in primary T cells. They also found that SFN blocks infection after entry, but before the formation of 2-LTR circles. The authors suggest that SFN may be a potential therapeutic agent for HIV infection. The study highlights the importance of understanding the mechanisms underlying HIV infection and the potential for natural products to be used as therapeutic agents.'
 'Chagas disease is a devastating disease caused by the trypanosomatid protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi . There is no drug available to treat the chronic stage of Chagas disease. In this study, we have optimized a whole cell-based assay for high throughput screening of compounds that inhibit infection of mammalian cells by T . cruzi trypomastigotes . Three hits were selected for their high activity against T . cruzi and low toxicity to host cells in vitro: PCH1 , NT1 and CX1 ( IC50: 54 , 190 and 23 nM , respectively ) . Each of these three compounds presents a different mechanism of action on intracellular proliferation of T . cruzi amastigotes . CX1 shows strong trypanocidal activity , an essential characteristic for the development of drugs against the chronic stage of Chagas disease where parasites are found intracellular in a quiescent stage . NT1 has a trypanostatic effect , while PCH1 affects parasite division . The three compounds also show high activity against intracellular T . cruzi from the Y strain and against the related kinetoplastid species Leishmania major and L . amazonensis . Characterization of the anti–T . cruzi activity of molecules chemically related to the three library hits allowed the selection of two compounds with IC50 values of 2 nM ( PCH6 and CX2 ) . These values are approximately 100 times lower than those of the medicines used in patients against T . cruzi . These results provide new candidate molecules for the development of treatments against Chagas disease and leishmaniasis .'
 'Bistability is a common feature of many gene regulatory networks (GRNs) that control essential biological functions such as cell differentiation and cell cycle regulation. However, identifying the network topologies that can exhibit bistability is a challenge due to the large variety of GRNs that exist for even a small number of components. In this work, we use chemical reaction network theory (CRNT) to determine the capacity for bistability of more than 40,000 simple GRNs consisting of two transcription factor-coding genes and their associated proteins. We find that there exist reaction rate constants leading to bistability in ∼90% of these GRN models, including several circuits that do not contain any of the TF cooperativity commonly associated with bistable systems. Our results suggest that the capacity for switch-like behavior in GRNs arises with relative ease and is not easily lost through network evolution. We integrated publicly available protein-protein interaction, protein-DNA interaction, and gene expression data from Saccharomyces cerevisiae and identified several GRNs predicted to behave in a bistable fashion. Our results demonstrate the utility of CRNT in identifying bistable modules in organisms that have not been fully explored from a functional genomics perspective.'
 'Lymphedema is a debilitating condition that affects millions of people worldwide, particularly in developing countries. It is caused by infections with parasites that live in the lymphatic system, such as filariae. In this study, researchers exposed human lymphatic endothelial cells to filarial antigens, live parasites, or infected patient serum. They found that live parasites or filarial antigens induced both significant LEC proliferation and differentiation into tube-like structures in vitro. Moreover, serum from patently infected individuals and those with longstanding chronic lymphatic obstruction induced significantly increased LEC proliferation compared to sera from uninfected individuals. Differentiation of LEC into tube-like networks was found to be associated with significantly increased levels of matrix metalloproteases and inhibition of their TIMP inhibitors (Tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteases). The data suggest that filarial parasites directly induce lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic differentiation and provide insight into the mechanisms underlying the pathology seen in lymphatic filariasis.'
 'Plant-pathogenic Xanthomonas bacteria use transcription activator-like effectors ( TALEs ) to activate virulence genes in infected plants. TALEs have a unique DNA-binding domain composed of tandem repeats that bind to specific target sequences on the DNA. In this study, we developed a new approach for predicting TALE target sequences based on recent findings concerning TALE targeting. Our approach accounts for dependencies between adjacent RVDs, position 0 specificity, and flexible strand orientation of target boxes. We benchmarked our approach using RNA-seq data after Xanthomonas infection in rice and found an overall improvement of prediction performance compared with previous approaches. Using our approach, we predicted several novel putative virulence targets. However, we also observed that no target genes were predicted by any prediction tool for several TALEs, which we termed orphan TALEs. We postulate that one explanation for orphan TALEs is incomplete gene annotations and, hence, propose to replace promoterome-wide by genome-wide scans for target boxes. We demonstrate that known targets from promoterome-wide scans may be recovered by genome-wide scans, whereas the latter, combined with RNA-seq data, are able to detect putative targets independent of existing gene annotations. Our approach, termed PrediTALE, is the first to account for aberrant repeats when predicting TALE targets. It is also the first to predict target boxes in reverse strand orientation relative to the transcription start site of their target gene, with a small penalty term in this case, following the assumption that functional reverse target boxes are rather rare in planta.'
 'The OmpR DNA binding protein of Gram-negative bacteria has the potential to govern collectives of genes whose membership is subject to change. This is because OmpR demonstrates only moderate specificity for its DNA targets, allowing new binding sites to arise de novo in relatively few mutagenic steps. Furthermore, OmpR has the potential to respond to more than one environmental signal, giving it the potential to participate in regulon evolution from the standpoint of regulatory signal reception. Our findings show that OmpR expression is regulated differently in S . Typhimurium and E . coli and that there are very large differences in the composition of the OmpR regulons in these bacterial species. We find that OmpR shows little DNA sequence specificity in its binding sites and propose that this makes OmpR particularly useful for bringing horizontally acquired genes into an established regulatory circuit encoded by the core genome. Our results provide new insights into the evolution of gene networks in bacteria and their adaptation to new niches, including pathogenic interactions with host organisms.'
 'Two-component signaling systems are important for sensing and responding to environmental stimuli in bacteria, Archaea, and plants. These systems typically involve a sensory histidine kinase that phosphorylates a Receiver (REC) domain on a conserved aspartate (Asp) residue. However, some REC domains lack this phosphorylatable Asp residue. These divergent REC domains are surprisingly common and are enriched for when attached to more rare effector outputs. Analysis of these atypical REC domains, combined with structural, biochemical, and genetic data of the ALR archetype RitR from Streptococcus pneumoniae presented here, suggest that ALRs have reorganized their active pockets to instead take on a constitutive regulatory role or accommodate input signals other than Asp phosphorylation, while largely retaining the canonical post-phosphorylation mechanisms and dimeric interface. This work defines ALRs as an atypical REC subclass and provides insights into shared mechanisms of activation between ALR and REC domains.'
 'The bacterial replication cycle is driven by the DnaA protein, which cycles between the active ATP-bound form and the inactive ADP-bound form. It has been suggested that DnaA also is the main controller of initiation frequency. In this work, we have performed cell cycle analysis of cells that contain a surplus of ATP-DnaA and asked whether initiation then occurs earlier. We found that cells with more than a 50% increase in the concentration of ATP-DnaA showed no changes in timing of replication. We suggest that although ATP-DnaA is the main actor in initiation of replication, its accumulation does not control the time of initiation. ATP-DnaA is the motor that drives the initiation process, but other factors will be required for the exact timing of initiation in response to the cell’s environment. We also investigated the in vivo roles of datA dependent DnaA inactivation ( DDAH ) and the DnaA-binding protein DiaA. Loss of DDAH affected the cell cycle machinery only during slow growth and made it sensitive to the concentration of DiaA protein. The result indicates that compromised cell cycle machines perform in a less robust manner. '
 'The rat demyelination ( dmy ) mutation is a unique model system for studying the maintenance of myelin in the central nervous system ( CNS ). In this study, the molecular characterization of this mutation was reported and the possible pathomechanisms underlying demyelination were discussed. By positional cloning, it was found that a G-to-A transition, 177 bp downstream of exon 3 of the Mrs2 ( MRS2 magnesium homeostasis factor ( Saccharomyces cerevisiae ) ) gene, generated a novel splice acceptor site which resulted in functional inactivation of the mutant allele. Transgenic rescue with wild-type Mrs2-cDNA validated these findings. Mrs2 encodes an essential component of the major Mg2+ influx system in mitochondria of yeast as well as human cells. The dmy/dmy rats have major mitochondrial deficits with a markedly elevated lactic acid concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid, a 60% reduction in ATP, and increased numbers of mitochondria in the swollen cytoplasm of oligodendrocytes. MRS2-GFP recombinant BAC transgenic rats showed that MRS2 was dominantly expressed in neurons rather than oligodendrocytes and was ultrastructurally observed in the inner membrane of mitochondria. These observations led to the conclusion that dmy/dmy rats suffer from a mitochondrial disease and that the maintenance of myelin has a different mechanism from its initial production. They also established that Mg2+ homeostasis in CNS mitochondria is essential for the maintenance of myelin.'
 'Leishmaniasis is a disease that affects millions of people worldwide, and the study of the immune response to Leishmania infection is crucial for understanding the pathogenesis of the disease. In this study, we compared the proteomes of amastigotes isolated from BALB/c and BALB/c nude mice to understand the effect of the host immune system on Leishmania proteins. We found that there were 44 differentially expressed proteins between the two strains, including proteins related to oxidative/nitrosative stress and proteases. Some of these proteins correspond to known Leishmania virulence factors such as OPB and tryparedoxin peroxidase. We believe our study may allow the identification of potential virulence factors and ways of regulating their expression.'
 'Cryptococcosis is a systemic mycosis caused by the yeast Cryptococcus neoformans and C. gattii. The current study aimed to expand the current epidemiological knowledge of cryptococcosis in Thailand by including 498 clinical, environmental, and veterinary isolates of the C. neoformans/C. gattii species complex. The majority of the isolates were C. neoformans molecular type VNI, regardless of their sources. The current study revealed a greater genetic diversity and a wider range of major molecular types being present among Thai cryptococcal isolates than previously reported. The study also identified a number of molecular typing techniques that can be used to study the molecular epidemiology of the C. neoformans/C. gattii species complex. The findings of this study provide valuable information for the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of cryptococcosis in Thailand.'
 'Scabies is a common dermatological condition that affects millions of people worldwide. It is caused by the Sarcoptes scabiei mite, which burrows into the skin and causes intense itching. Current treatments for scabies include topical agents and oral ivermectin, but these are not always effective and can have side effects. Moxidectin (MOX) is a promising alternative treatment that has been shown to be effective in a porcine scabies model. In this study, researchers compared the efficacy of MOX to IVM in a porcine scabies model. They found that MOX was more effective than IVM in treating scabies, with 100% efficacy compared to 62% for IVM. MOX also had a longer half-life in the plasma and skin, which could enable long-lasting efficacy. The researchers concluded that MOX is a promising alternative treatment for scabies that warrants further investigation.'
 'The type III interferon ( IFNλ ) receptor IL-28R is abundantly expressed in the respiratory tract and has been shown essential for host defense against some viral pathogens . However, no data are available concerning its role in the innate immune response to bacterial pathogens . In this study, we found that IFNλ promotes inflammation during bacterial pneumonia by inhibiting miR-21 regulation of PDCD4 . We also found that mice lacking the IFNλ receptor or PDCD4 had significantly improved clearance of both airway pathogens and less pulmonary pathology associated with reduced levels of inflammatory cytokines . These data suggest that during bacterial pneumonia IFNλ promotes inflammation by inhibiting miR-21 regulation of PDCD4 .'
 'This study demonstrates advanced pattern discrimination and continuous learning in a network of spiking neurons with multiple plastic layers. The network utilized both reward modulated and non-reward modulated spike time dependent plasticity (STDP) and implemented multiple mechanisms for homeostatic regulation of synaptic efficacy. The study predicts a critical set of properties of the spiking neuronal network with STDP that was sufficient to solve a complex foraging task involving pattern classification and decision making. The findings of this study have important implications for understanding the mechanisms of learning at the cellular level and how learning gives rise to the learning at the level of animal behavior.'
 'Genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) have been successful in identifying disease susceptibility loci for common and complex diseases. However, the use of only a limited number of confirmed susceptibility loci in disease risk assessment has resulted in poor performance. In this study, we propose that sophisticated machine-learning approaches with a large ensemble of markers may improve the performance of disease risk assessment. We applied a Support Vector Machine ( SVM ) algorithm on a GWAS dataset generated on the Affymetrix genotyping platform for type 1 diabetes ( T1D ) and optimized a risk assessment model with hundreds of markers. We subsequently tested this model on an independent Illumina-genotyped dataset with imputed genotypes ( 1 , 008 cases and 1 , 000 controls ) , as well as a separate Affymetrix-genotyped dataset ( 1 , 529 cases and 1 , 458 controls ) , resulting in area under ROC curve ( AUC ) of ∼0 . 84 in both datasets. In contrast, poor performance was achieved when limited to dozens of known susceptibility loci in the SVM model or logistic regression model. Our study suggests that improved disease risk assessment can be achieved by using algorithms that take into account interactions between a large ensemble of markers. We are optimistic that genotype-based disease risk assessment may be feasible for diseases where a notable proportion of the risk has already been captured by SNP arrays.'
 'Leishmaniasis is a neglected tropical disease that affects millions of people worldwide. In Brazil, the number of cases has been increasing over the past few decades. To better understand the spatial and temporal patterns of leishmaniasis in Brazil, we used Bayesian geostatistical negative binomial models to analyze reported incidence data of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis from 2001 to 2010. We found that precipitation and socioeconomic proxies were important risk factors for both types of leishmaniasis. Our spatially explicit, high-resolution incidence maps identified priority areas where leishmaniasis control efforts should be targeted. Our study provides valuable information for decision-makers to prioritize intervention areas and optimize resources allocation for leishmaniasis control and elimination efforts in Brazil.'
 'IKAROS is a transcription factor that plays a critical role in hematopoietic cell fate and differentiation. It has been shown to bind to the NuRD complex, which is a repressive complex that also contains HDACs. However, it has been unclear how IKAROS can activate transcription while being associated with the NuRD complex. In this study, the authors show that IKAROS can recruit the NuRD complex to specific genes, and that this recruitment is important for transcription elongation. They also show that IKAROS can bind to the P-TEFb complex, which is a transcription elongation factor, and that this binding is important for transcription elongation. The authors also show that IKAROS can bind to PP1α, which is a phosphatase that dephosphorylates CDK9, which is a subunit of P-TEFb. They show that this binding is important for transcription elongation. Finally, the authors show that IKAROS is important for normal hematopoietic differentiation of primary hematopoietic progenitor cells. Overall, this study provides important insights into the mechanisms by which IKAROS regulates transcription and hematopoietic differentiation.'
 'Mitochondria are organelles that produce energy for cells. They originated from proteobacteria and have a protein import system that is common to all forms of mitochondria. However, the protein import system in mitochondria is diverse and has different subunits between eukaryotic lineages. The authors analyzed the protein import system in hydrogenosomes, which are a type of mitochondria found in the parasite Trichomonas vaginalis. They found that the hydrogenosomal protein import system (TvTOM) has a translocase of the outer membrane (TOM) complex that is composed of four subunits. Two of the subunits are receptors that recognize proteins with targeting sequences and bind them to the TOM complex. The authors also found that TvTOM is associated with sorting and assembly machinery (SAM) 50, which is involved in the biogenesis of β-barrel proteins. The authors propose that the triplet-pore TOM complex, composed of three conserved subunits, was present in the last common eukaryotic ancestor (LECA), and that receptors evolved independently in different eukaryotic lineages. The authors suggest that the TvTOM complex is a representative of the ancestral TOM complex and that it provides insights into the evolution of the protein import system in mitochondria.'
 'Breast cancer is a common malignancy among women worldwide, including those living in East Asian countries. Genetic factors play an important role in the etiology of both sporadic and familial breast cancer. In the past two decades, more than 1,000 reports have been published addressing the association between variants in candidate genes and breast cancer risk. However, only a few genetic risk factors have been confirmed for this common malignancy. Recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified approximately 20 common genetic susceptibility loci for breast cancer. However, these newly-identified genetic factors, along with known high-penetrance breast cancer susceptibility genes explain less than 30% of the heritability for this cancer. Furthermore, most GWAS were conducted among women of European ancestry, and many of the variants discovered in European-ancestry populations showed only a weak or no association with breast cancer in other ethnic groups. For example, only 8 of 12 breast cancer risk SNPs identified in women of European ancestry were directly replicated in Chinese population. Therefore, GWAS conducted in non-European women are needed to fully uncover the genetic basis for breast cancer susceptibility. In this study, we report results from a large GWAS of breast cancer conducted in East Asian women. We aimed to discover novel genetic susceptibility loci for breast cancer. We conducted a four-stage genome-wide association study (GWAS) in 19,091 cases and 20,606 controls of East-Asian descent including Chinese, Korean, and Japanese women. After analyzing 690,947 SNPs in 2,918 cases and 2,324 controls, we evaluated 5,365 SNPs for replication in 3,972 cases and 3,852 controls. Ninety-four SNPs were further evaluated in 5,203 cases and 5,138 controls, and finally the top 22 SNPs were investigated in up to 17,423 additional subjects (7,489 cases and 9,934 controls). SNP rs9485372, near the TGF-β activated kinase (TAB2) gene in chromosome 6q25.1, showed a consistent association with breast cancer risk across all four stages, with a P-value of 3.8×10−12 in the combined analysis of all samples. Adjusted odds ratios (95% confidence intervals) were 0.89 (0.85–0.94) and 0.80 (0.75–0.86) for the A/G and A/A genotypes, respectively, compared with the genotype G/G. SNP rs9383951 (P=1.9×10−6 from the combined analysis of all samples) located in intron 5 of the ESR1 gene, and SNP rs7107217 (P=4.6×10−7) located at 11q24.3, also showed a consistent association in each of the four stages. This study provides strong evidence for a novel breast cancer susceptibility locus represented by rs9485372 near the TAB2 gene (6q25.1), and identifies two possible susceptibility loci located in the ESR1 gene and 11q24.3, respectively.'
 'Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks are complex systems that are difficult to understand. To address this challenge, we developed a new method to assess the confidence of interactions in PPI networks. Our method uses a geometric random graph model of PPI networks, which is a versatile graph family that can be constructed using different metric spaces and distance norms. We applied our method to de-noise PPI data sets by detecting false positives and false negative interactions. Our results show that our method is effective in reducing noise in PPI networks and predicting novel interactions. We compared our method with existing PPI network post-processing techniques and found that our method outperforms them. Our method is a powerful tool for understanding complex PPI networks and can be used to guide future biological experiments.'
 'Buruli ulcer (BU) is a chronic necrotizing skin disease caused by infection with Mycobacterium ulcerans. Despite extensive research, the type of immune responses elicited against this pathogen and the effector functions conferring protection against BU are not yet fully understood. In this study, we found that interferon-γ (IFN-γ) is a critical regulator of early host immune defense against M. ulcerans infection. IFN-γ knockout mice displayed a faster progression of the infection compared to wild-type mice, reflected in faster and more extensive tissue necrosis and oedema formation, as well as in a significantly higher bacterial burden after five weeks of infection. This data demonstrates a prominent role of IFN-γ in early defense against M. ulcerans infection and supports the view that concepts for vaccine development against tuberculosis may also be valid for BU.'
 'The mosquito Aedes aegypti is a major target of vector control programs in tropical countries. Most mosquito surveillance programs are based on traditional household larval surveys, despite the availability of new trapping devices. We compared four types of traps with traditional larval surveys to determine their sensitivity and reliability in detecting mosquito density variation. The study was conducted in five mid-sized cities in Brazil, representing variations of tropical climate regimens. Traps for adults (BioGent-Sentinel, Adultrap, and MosquiTRAP) or eggs (ovitraps) were applied monthly to three 1 km2 areas per city. Simultaneously, larval surveys were performed. Trap positivity and density indices in each area were calculated and regressed against meteorological variables to characterize the seasonal pattern of mosquito infestation in all cities. All investigated traps performed better than the House Index in measuring the seasonal variation in mosquito abundance and should be considered as complements or alternatives to larval surveys. Choice between traps should further consider differences of cost and ease-of-use.'
 'We developed a novel mathematical method to study the dynamics of small neural networks composed of a few tens of neurons. We found that for strong inhibition, the network undergoes a special bifurcation known as branching point, from which multiple solutions of the neural equations emerge. This phenomenon of spontaneous symmetry-breaking is not revealed by the mean-field approximation. Our approach provides a new tool to study the dynamics of mesoscopic neural circuits and their emergent properties.'
 'A major problem in biology is to understand how complex tissue shapes may arise through growth . In many cases this process involves preferential growth along particular orientations raising the question of how these orientations are specified . One view is that orientations are specified through stresses in the tissue ( axiality-based system ) . Another possibility is that orientations can be specified independently of stresses through molecular signalling ( polarity-based system ) . The axiality-based system has recently been explored through computational modelling . Here we develop and apply a polarity-based system which we call the Growing Polarised Tissue ( GPT ) framework . Tissue is treated as a continuous material within which regionally expressed factors under genetic control may interact and propagate . Polarity is established by signals that propagate through the tissue and is anchored in regions termed tissue polarity organisers that are also under genetic control . Rates of growth parallel or perpendicular to the local polarity may then be specified through a regulatory network . The resulting growth depends on how specified growth patterns interact within the constraints of mechanically connected tissue . This constraint leads to the emergence of features such as curvature that were not directly specified by the regulatory networks . Resultant growth feeds back to influence spatial arrangements and local orientations of tissue , allowing complex shapes to emerge from simple rules . Moreover , asymmetries may emerge through interactions between polarity fields . We illustrate the value of the GPT-framework for understanding morphogenesis by applying it to a growing Snapdragon flower and indicate how the underlying hypotheses may be tested by computational simulation . We propose that combinatorial intractions between orientations and rates of growth , which are a key feature of polarity-based systems , have been exploited during evolution to generate a range of observed biological shapes .'
 'Ophthalmo-acromelic syndrome (OAS) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by eye malformations, most commonly bilateral anophthalmia, and post-axial oligosyndactyly. The authors report the identification of a locus for OAS on 14q24.2 and subsequent identification of homozygous, predicted loss-of-function mutations in the SMOC1 gene in eight out of fourteen unrelated families with OAS. Whole mount in situ hybridization combined with optical projection tomography shows site- and stage-specific developmental expression of the orthologous mouse gene, Smoc1, in embryonic limb bud and craniofacial structures. The phenotype associated with homozygosity for a targeted "pre-conditional" gene-trap mouse mutation of Smoc1 also shows significant overlap with the human disease. The authors discuss the potential role for SMOC-1 in modulating BMP signaling during eye and limb development.'
 'The Drosophila genes spalt major (salm) and spalt-related (salr) encode Zn-finger transcription factors regulated by the Decapentaplegic (Dpp) signalling pathway in the wing imaginal disc. The function of these genes is required for cell survival and proliferation in the central region of the wing disc, and also for vein patterning in the lateral regions. The identification of direct Salm and Salr target genes and the analysis of their functions are critical steps towards understanding the genetic control of growth and patterning of the Drosophila wing imaginal disc by the Dpp pathway. In this study, we have compared the expression profile of salm/salr knockdown wing discs with control discs in microarray experiments and uncovered a complex transcription landscape regulated by the Spalt proteins in the wing disc. We have identified a collection of candidate genes that are regulated by the Sal proteins and might mediate their functions in the wing disc. Our work identifies an unsuspected transcriptional complexity occurring downstream of Spalt that involves repression as well as activation of gene expression.'
 'We studied the response of a first-order auditory interneuron ( AN2 ) in crickets to amplitude-modulated sound stimuli and found that adaptation shifts the stimulus–response curves toward higher stimulus intensities, with a time constant of 1.5 seconds for adaptation and recovery. The spike responses were thus reduced for low-intensity sounds. We then tested two competing hypotheses about how adaptation changes the input–response curve when presenting signals with two or three peaks in their amplitude distributions. By means of Bayesian data analysis, we quantified the shifts of the measured response curves and also found a slight reduction of their slopes. These decreases in slopes are smaller than those predicted by the infomax principle, and the absolute response thresholds are higher. Most remarkably, and in contrast to the infomax principle, adaptation actually reduces the amount of encoded information when considering the whole range of input signals. The response curve changes are also not consistent with the selective coding hypothesis, because the amount of information conveyed about the loudest part of the signal does not increase as predicted but remains nearly constant. Less information is transmitted about signals with lower intensity.'
 'Borrelia burgdorferi is a spirochete that causes Lyme disease in humans and ticks. The bacterium has three sigma factors that control gene expression in response to environmental cues. One of these sigma factors, RpoS, is important for the transmission of spirochetes from ticks to mammals. In this study, the authors show that RpoS-dependent gene expression is required for the transmission of spirochetes by feeding nymphs. They also show that spirochetes that are unable to produce enough energy for transmission form round bodies, which are a previously unsuspected survival mode. The authors suggest that RpoS may be a target for the development of new treatments for Lyme disease.'
2-Cys peroxiredoxins are important enzymes that play various functions in cells, including peroxide removal. In Leishmania and related trypanosomatids, which lack catalase and selenium-glutathione peroxidases, the discovery of this family of enzymes provided the molecular basis for peroxide removal in these organisms. In this study, the functional relevance of one of such enzymes, the mitochondrial 2-Cys peroxiredoxin (mTXNPx), was investigated along the Leishmania infantum life cycle. mTXNPx null mutants (mtxnpx−) were found unable to thrive in a murine model of infection, but this was not due to lack of the peroxidase activity of mTXNPx. Instead, the avirulent phenotype of mtxnpx− was due to the inability of these mutants to function as molecular chaperones, which is a novel function proposed for mTXNPx. This study changes the paradigm which regards all trypanosomatid 2-Cys peroxiredoxins as peroxide-eliminating devices. Moreover, it demonstrates, for the first time, that these 2-Cys peroxiredoxins can be determinant for pathogenicity independently of their peroxidase activity.
 'Plants produce a vast amount of biomass annually, which is metabolized by specialized microbes in diverse environments. Microbes play a crucial role in carbon cycling, human nutrition, and industrial processes based on cellulosic bioconversion. In this study, we developed a method to analyze how microbes catabolize plant polysaccharides that integrates CAZyme assays, RNA sequencing, and anaerobic growth screening. We applied this method to study how the bacterium Clostridium phytofermentans ferments plant biomass components, including glucans, mannans, xylans, galactans, pectins, and arabinans. These polysaccharides are fermented with variable efficiencies, and diauxies prioritize metabolism of preferred substrates. Strand-specific RNA sequencing revealed how this bacterium responds to polysaccharides by up-regulating specific groups of CAZymes, transporters, and enzymes to metabolize the constituent sugars. We purified 56 up-regulated CAZymes and tested their activities to show most polysaccharides are degraded by multiple enzymes, often from the same family, but with divergent rates, specificities, and cellular localizations. CAZymes were then tested in combination to identify synergies between enzymes acting on the same substrate with different catalytic mechanisms. Our results advance our understanding of how microbes degrade and metabolize plant biomass, which is important for understanding carbon flow in the environment, promoting healthy human nutrition, and developing industrial processes based on cellulosic bioconversion.'
 'Glanders is a rare but serious disease caused by the bacterium Burkholderia mallei that affects both animals and humans. It is highly contagious and can be fatal. Although eradicated from many Western countries, it has recently emerged in Asia, the Middle East, Africa, and South America. We investigated a recent outbreak of glanders in Bahrain by using high-resolution genotyping and comparative whole genome sequencing. Our results showed that the samples from the outbreak in Bahrain separated into two distinct clusters, suggesting a complex epidemiological background and evidence for the involvement of multiple B . mallei strains. Additionally, the samples from Bahrain were more closely related to B . mallei isolated from horses in the United Arab Emirates in 2004 than other B . mallei, which is indicative of repeated importation to the region from similar geographic sources. The close relationship of the Dubai/UAE B . mallei populations to each other may be indicative of a similar geographic origin that has yet to be identified for the infecting strains. The recent emergence of glanders in combination with worldwide horse trading might pose a new risk for human infections.'
 'In the dicotyledon Arabidopsis thaliana ( Arabidopsis ), auxin biosynthesis via indole-3-pyruvic acid ( IPA ) is essential for root development and requires redundant TRYPTOPHAN AMINOTRANSFERASE OF ARABIDOPSIS 1 ( TAA1 ) and TAA1-RELATED ( TAR ) genes . A promoter T-DNA insertion in the monocotyledon Brachypodium distachyon ( Brachypodium ) TAR2-LIKE gene ( BdTAR2L ) severely down-regulates expression , suggesting reduced tryptophan aminotransferase activity in this mutant , which thus represents a hypomorphic Bdtar2l allele ( Bdtar2lhypo ) . Counterintuitive however , Bdtar2lhypo mutants display dramatically elongated seminal roots because of enhanced cell elongation . This phenotype is also observed in another , stronger Bdtar2l allele and can be mimicked by treating wild type with L-kynerunine , a specific TAA1/TAR inhibitor . Surprisingly , L-kynerunine-treated as well as Bdtar2l roots display elevated rather than reduced auxin levels . This does not appear to result from compensation by alternative auxin biosynthesis pathways . Rather , expression of YUCCA genes , which are rate-limiting for conversion of IPA to auxin , is increased in Bdtar2l mutants . Consistent with suppression of Bdtar2lhypo root phenotypes upon application of the ethylene precursor 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic-acid ( ACC ) , BdYUCCA genes are down-regulated upon ACC treatment . Moreover , they are up-regulated in a downstream ethylene-signaling component homolog mutant , Bd ethylene insensitive 2-like 1 , which also displays a Bdtar2l root phenotype . In summary , Bdtar2l phenotypes contrast with gradually reduced root growth and auxin levels described for Arabidopsis taa1/tar mutants . This could be explained if in Brachypodium , ethylene inhibits the rate-limiting step of auxin biosynthesis in an IPA-dependent manner to confer auxin levels that are sub-optimal for root cell elongation , as suggested by our observations . Thus , our results reveal a delicate homeostasis of local auxin and ethylene activity to control cell elongation in Brachypodium roots and suggest alternative wiring of auxin-ethylene crosstalk as compared to Arabidopsis .'
 'The 3D organization of chromosomes is crucial for regulating gene expression and cell function . In this study, we propose a generic strategy to develop efficient coarse-grained models for self-avoiding polymers on a lattice . We show that our simulation scheme not only captures the steady-state structural and dynamical properties of the system but also tracks the same dynamics at different coarse-graining . This strategy allows a strong power-law gain in numerical efficiency and offers a systematic way to define reliable coarse-grained null models for chromosomes. We use our formalism to investigate in details the time evolution of the 3D organization of chromosome 3R ( 20 Mbp ) in drosophila during one cell cycle ( 20 hours ) . We show that a combination of our coarse-graining strategy with a one-parameter block copolymer model integrating epigenomic-driven interactions quantitatively reproduce experimental data at the chromosome-scale and predict that chromatin motion is very dynamic during the cell cycle .'
 'Toxoplasma gondii is an intracellular parasite that replicates in mammalian cells within a parasitophorous vacuole ( PV ) that does not fuse with any host organelles . One mechanism developed by the parasite for nutrient acquisition is the attraction of host organelles to the PV . Here , we examined the exploitation of host lipid droplets ( LD ) , ubiquitous fat storage organelles , by Toxoplasma . We show that Toxoplasma replication is reduced in host cells that are depleted of LD , or impaired in TAG lipolysis or fatty acid catabolism . In infected cells , the number of host LD and the expression of host LD-associated genes ( ADRP , DGAT2 ) , progressively increase until the onset of parasite replication . Throughout infection , the PV are surrounded by host LD . Toxoplasma is capable of accessing lipids stored in host LD and incorporates these lipids into its own membranes and LD . Exogenous addition of oleic acid stimulates LD biogenesis in the host cell and results in the overaccumulation of neutral lipids in very large LD inside the parasite . To access LD-derived lipids , Toxoplasma intercepts and internalizes within the PV host LD , some of which remaining associated with Rab7 , which become wrapped by an intravacuolar network of membranes ( IVN ) . Mutant parasites impaired in IVN formation display diminished capacity of lipid uptake from host LD . Moreover , parasites lacking an IVN-localized phospholipase A2 are less proficient in salvaging lipids from host LD in the PV , suggesting a major contribution of the IVN for host LD processing in the PV and , thus lipid content release . Interestingly , gavage of parasites with lipids unveils , for the first time , the presence in Toxoplasma of endocytic-like structures containing lipidic material originating from the PV lumen . This study highlights the reliance of Toxoplasma on host LD for its intracellular development and the parasite’s capability in scavenging neutral lipids from host LD .'
 'The BMP signaling pathway is a conserved mechanism for controlling development in animals. In Drosophila, BMP signaling is transduced by the Mad transcription factor and opposed by the Brinker repressor. In this study, we used RNA-seq and ChIP-seq to identify BMP target genes and enhancers during dorsal-ventral axis patterning in Drosophila embryos. We found that EGF signaling negatively regulates embryonic BMP-responsive transcription. We also identified key roles for the Zelda and Zerknüllt transcription factors in establishing the resulting expression domain, and found widespread binding of insulator proteins to the Mad and Brinker-bound genomic regions. Our findings suggest that the BMP gene network has a self-regulating property in that it establishes a balance between its activity and that of the antagonistic EGF signaling pathway to facilitate correct patterning. We incorporated our findings into a model for Mad-dependent activation and discussed its relevance to BMP signal interpretation in vertebrates.'
 'Mitochondria are essential organelles in eukaryotic cells that play a crucial role in energy production, metabolism, and cellular signaling. The mitochondrial proteome is composed of both mitochondrial-encoded and nuclear-encoded proteins. In this study, the authors used network analysis to investigate the systemic alterations of the mitochondrial proteome in response to mitochondrial dysfunction caused by mtDNA depletion. They found that the mitochondrial proteome was organized into two predominant subnetworks, one involved in typical mitochondrial functions and the other responsible for mtDNA repair and regulation of mt protein expression and transport. The authors also discovered that cells attempted to compensate for mtDNA depletion by modulating the coordinated expression and transport of mt proteins. These findings provide a framework for understanding how cells respond to mitochondrial dysfunctions and may be useful for developing new therapeutic strategies for mitochondrial diseases.'
 'Thioredoxin (Trx) is a protein that plays a key role in redox regulation in cells. It is involved in the reduction of disulfide bonds in other proteins, which is important for maintaining the correct structure and function of these proteins. The dissociation mechanism of the Trx mixed disulfide complexes has been debated for more than twenty years. In this study, we used molecular dynamics simulations, pKa calculations, and biochemical complex formation experiments with Cys-mutants to study the dissociation of the Trx-ArsC mixed disulfide complex. We observed that the conformational changes around the intermediate disulfide bring Cys32Trx in contact with Cys29Trx. Cys32Trx is activated for its nucleophilic attack by hydrogen bonds, and Cys32Trx is found to be more reactive than Cys82ArsC. Additionally, Cys32Trx directs its nucleophilic attack on the more susceptible Cys29Trx and not on Cys89ArsC. This multidisciplinary approach provides fresh insights into a universal thiol/disulfide exchange reaction mechanism that results in reduced substrate and oxidized Trx.'
 'Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae and M . lepromatosis that primarily affects the skin and peripheral nervous system . In this study, we investigated the role of complement receptor 1 ( CR1 ) polymorphisms on susceptibility to leprosy in a case-control study with Brazilian leprosy patients. We found that individuals with the most common recombinant haplotype harboring rs3849266*T in intron 21 and rs3737002*T in exon 26 presented twice higher susceptibility to leprosy. Paucibacillary patients with these variants presented lower soluble CR1 levels, thus reducing the anti-inflammatory response. Furthermore, the most ancient haplotype increased susceptibility to the multibacillary clinical form and presented the intronic rs12034383*G allele, which was associated with higher gene expression, probably increasing internalization of the parasite. We also found an inverse correlation between the levels of soluble CR1 and mannose-binding lectin ( initiator molecule of the lectin pathway of complement, recognized by CR1 ). Our results lead us to suggest a regulatory role for CR1 polymorphisms on mRNA and soluble CR1 levels, with haplotype-specific effects increasing susceptibility to leprosy, probably by enhancing parasite phagocytosis and inflammation.'
 'Metagenomic sequencing is a promising method for diagnosing human infections. However, the accuracy of this method depends on the availability and quality of genomes for comparison. Recent studies have revealed the presence of contamination in published genomes, which increases the risk of falsely identifying the wrong pathogen. To address this problem, we have developed a bioinformatics system for eliminating contamination and low-complexity genomic sequences in draft genomes of eukaryotic pathogens. We applied this software to identify and remove human, bacterial, archaeal, and viral sequences present in a comprehensive database of all sequenced eukaryotic pathogen genomes. We also removed low-complexity genomic sequences. Using this pipeline, we have produced a database of “clean” eukaryotic pathogen genomes for use with bioinformatics classification and analysis tools. We demonstrate that when attempting to find eukaryotic pathogens in metagenomic samples, the new database provides better sensitivity than one using the original genomes while offering a dramatic reduction in false positives.'
 'The Stockholm Atherosclerosis Gene Expression (STAGE) study aimed to identify functionally associated genes important for coronary artery disease (CAD) using whole-genome expression profiles from multiple organs. Two-way clustering was used to define tissue clusters and to cluster patients according to the mRNA signals within each tissue cluster. The analysis revealed a transendothelial migration of leukocytes (TEML) pathway-related module that was genetically enriched with CAD risk by 1.8-fold. The transcription co-factor LIM domain binding 2 (LDB2) was identified as a potential high-hierarchy regulator of the module, a notion supported by subnetwork analysis, by cellular and lesion expression of LDB2, and by the expression of 13 TEML genes in Ldb2–deficient arterial wall. The results suggest that the TEML module may be important for atherosclerosis development and that LDB2 may be a potential therapeutic target for CAD.'
 'Human visual perception is constantly shaped by two contrasting forces exerted by sensory adaptation and past decisions. In a series of experiments, we used multilevel modeling and cross-validation approaches to investigate the impact of previous stimuli and decisions on behavioral reports during adjustment and forced-choice tasks. Our results revealed that each perceptual report is permeated by opposite biases from a hierarchy of serially dependent processes: Low-level adaptation repels perception away from previous stimuli, whereas decisional traces attract perceptual reports toward the recent past. In this hierarchy of serial dependence, “continuity fields” arise from the inertia of decisional templates and not from low-level sensory processes. This finding is consistent with a Two-process model of serial dependence in which the persistence of readout weights in a decision unit compensates for sensory adaptation, leading to attractive biases in sequential perception. We propose a unified account of serial dependence in which functionally distinct mechanisms, operating at different stages, promote the differentiation and integration of visual information over time. Our work provides a new perspective on the history of sensory and decisional processes by reconciling opposite forms of short-term dependencies into a unified account of concatenated perception and decision-making.'
 'Examples of animals evolving similar traits despite the absence of that trait in the last common ancestor are called cases of convergent evolution. Here, we show that, with respect to a very diverse group of aquatic animals, a mechanically optimal method of swimming with elongated fins has evolved independently at least eight times in both vertebrate and invertebrate swimmers across three different phyla. Specifically, if we take the length of an undulation along an animal’s fin during swimming and divide it by the mean amplitude of undulations along the fin length, the result is consistently around twenty. We call this value the optimal specific wavelength (OSW). We show that the OSW maximizes the force generated by the body, which also maximizes swimming speed. We hypothesize a mechanical basis for this optimality and suggest reasons for its repeated emergence through evolution.'
 'Human papillomaviruses ( HPVs ) are DNA viruses associated with major human cancers . To develop new means to prevent HPV infections, such as vaccines and microbicides, a better understanding of the infectious life cycle of HPVs is needed. Here, we used chemical biology approaches to reveal that cell cycle progression through mitosis is critical for HPV infection. We learned that the recipient cell must enter M phase for successful onset of transcription of the HPV encapsidated genes. These findings provide one reason why HPVs initially establish infections in the basal compartment of stratified epithelia, where cells are progressing through the cell cycle. These results also have potentially important implications for HPV control.'
 'Orofacial clefting is a common birth defect with both genetic and environmental causes. Although numerous studies have been conducted to investigate the genetic etiology of this heterogeneous condition, the molecular basis remains incompletely understood. In this study, we identified mutations in the HYAL2 gene as a cause of syndromic orofacial clefting. HYAL2 encodes hyaluronidase 2, which degrades extracellular hyaluronan, a critical component of the developing heart and palatal shelf matrix. Transfection assays demonstrated that the gene mutations destabilize the molecule, dramatically reducing HYAL2 protein levels. Consistent with the clinical presentation in affected individuals, investigations of Hyal2-/- mice revealed craniofacial abnormalities, including submucosal cleft palate. In addition, cor triatriatum sinister and hearing loss, identified in a proportion of Hyal2-/- mice, were also found as incompletely penetrant features in affected humans. Our findings identify a new genetic cause of orofacial clefting in humans and mice and define the first molecular cause of human cor triatriatum sinister, illustrating the fundamental importance of HYAL2 and hyaluronan turnover for normal human and mouse development.'
 'Hypoxia during brain development can cause long-lasting damage to the brain, leading to neurodevelopmental impairments. However, the mechanisms behind this are not well understood. Recent work in the invertebrate Caenorhabditis elegans has shown that hypoxia causes axon pathfinding errors in certain neurons. We have now found that hypoxia also causes pathfinding errors in zebrafish, a vertebrate model organism. These errors are caused by activation of the hypoxia-inducible transcription factor (hif1) pathway, which leads to increased expression of the ephrinB2 gene. We have also found that magnesium sulfate, a drug that is sometimes given to mothers of premature infants to improve neurodevelopmental outcomes, can help reduce the frequency of these pathfinding errors by preventing upregulation of ephrinB2. These results suggest that hypoxia during brain development may cause similar pathfinding errors in vertebrates, and that magnesium sulfate may be a useful drug to prevent these errors in premature infants.'
 'Filarial nematodes, which cause diseases such as elephantiasis and lymphatic filariasis, have a mutualistic relationship with Wolbachia bacteria. Wolbachia are found in the hypodermal lateral chord cells and ovaries of adult worms, and in embryos within the uteri. Depleting Wolbachia with antibiotics leads to arrested development and permanent sterilization of adult female worms, and premature death of the parasites. In this study, the authors used whole mount confocal microscopy to observe the consequences of Wolbachia depletion on host nematode cellular and nuclear structure. They found extensive apoptosis in germline cells and embryos following antibiotic depletion of Wolbachia, even in cells that had not been infected with Wolbachia prior to antibiotic treatment. Nuclear structure in most somatic tissues remained intact, but disruption of cytoskeleton arrangement occurred in the lateral chord cells, where the vast majority of the bacteria reside. These findings provide a cellular mechanism to account for the sustained reductions in microfilarial loads and interruption of transmission that occurs prior to macrofilaricidal activity following antibiotic therapy of filarial nematodes.'
 'Influenza A viruses (IAVs) are known to reassort and cause pandemics in humans. Swine are proposed as a mixing vessel for generating reassortants of avian and mammalian IAVs. However, how a transmissible reassortant emerges in swine is not well understood. In this study, genomic analyses of 571 isolates recovered from nasal wash samples and respiratory tract tissues of a group of co-housed pigs (influenza-seronegative, avian H1N1 IAV-infected, and swine H3N2 IAV-infected pigs) identified 30 distinct genotypes of reassortants. Viruses recovered from lower respiratory tract tissues had the largest genomic diversity, and those recovered from turbinates and nasal wash fluids had the least. Reassortants from lower respiratory tracts had the largest variations in growth kinetics in respiratory tract epithelial cells, and the cold temperature in swine nasal cells seemed to select the type of reassortant viruses shed by the pigs. One reassortant in nasal wash samples was consistently identified in upper, middle, and lower respiratory tract tissues, and it was confirmed to be transmitted efficiently between pigs. Study findings suggest that during mixed infections of avian and swine IAVs, genetic reassortments are likely to occur in the lower respiratory tract, and tissue tropism is an important factor selecting for a transmissible reassortant.'
 'The Saccharomyces cerevisiae polo-like kinase Cdc5 promotes adaptation to DNA damage by attenuating the DNA damage checkpoint. Overexpression of Cdc5 promotes faster adaptation, indicating that high levels of Cdc5 modulate the ability of the checkpoint to inhibit the downstream cell-cycle machinery. Cdc5 overproduction appeared to have little effect on the early steps leading to Rad53 activation, but Rad53 hyperphosphorylation was significantly reduced, consistent with the observation that cell-cycle arrest is lost during adaptation. The study provides evidence that polo-like kinase homologs inhibit the ability of Claspin to facilitate the activation of downstream checkpoint kinases, suggesting that this function is conserved in vertebrates.'
 'Auditory streaming is a phenomenon where a complex sound is perceived as multiple separate streams. A common stimulus used to study auditory streaming involves alternating tone sequences organized in repeating ABA- triplets. The study of auditory streaming has been dominated by phenomenological models with abstract, percept-specific competition and fixed inputs. In this study, we combine neuromechanistic modeling and psychoacoustic experiments to study persistent alternations and to characterize the effects of manipulating stimulus parameters. We predict with the model that manipulations of the frequency difference between tones A and B should affect the dominance durations of the stronger percept, the one dominant a larger fraction of time, more than those of the weaker percept. We confirm the qualitative prediction with our psychoacoustic experiments and use the behavioral data to further constrain and improve the model. Our work provides a platform that can be extended to consider other stimulus conditions, including the effects of context and volition.'
 'Recent interest in male-based sterile insect technique ( SIT ) and incompatible insect technique ( IIT ) to control Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus populations has revealed the need for an economical, rapid diagnostic tool for determining dispersion and mating success of sterilized males in the wild. Previous reports from other insects indicated rhodamine B, a thiol-reactive fluorescent dye, could be used to stain the body tissue and seminal fluid of insects. Here, we report on the adaptation of this technique for male Ae. aegypti to allow for rapid assessment of competitiveness ( mating success ) during field releases. Marking was achieved by feeding males on 0.1, 0.2, 0.4, or 0.8% rhodamine B in 50% honey solutions during free flight. All concentrations produced >95% transfer to females and successful body marking after 4 days of feeding, with 0.4 and 0.8% solutions producing the longest-lasting body marking. Importantly, rhodamine B marking had no effect on male mating competitiveness and proof-of-principle field releases demonstrated successful transfer of marked seminal fluid to females under field conditions and recapture of marked males. These results reveal rhodamine B to be a potentially useful evaluation method for male-based SIT/IIT control strategies as well as a viable body marking technique for male-based mark-release-recapture experiments without the negative side-effects of traditional marking methods. As a standalone method for use in mating competitiveness assays, rhodamine B marking is less expensive than PCR ( e.g. paternity analysis ) and stable isotope semen labelling methods and less time-consuming than female fertility assays used to assess competitiveness of sterilised males.
 'Hematophagous mosquitos and ticks avoid host hemostatic system through expression of enzyme inhibitors targeting proteolytic reactions of the coagulation and complement cascades . Boophilin is a 2-Kunitz multifunctional inhibitor targeting thrombin , elastase , and kallikrein . Boophilin was expressed in HEK293 cells and purified to homogeneity . Using amidolytic assays and surface plasmon resonance experiments , we have demonstrated that Boophilin behaves as a classical , non-competitive inhibitor of thrombin with respect to small chromogenic substrates by a mechanism dependent on both exosite-1 and catalytic site . Inhibition is accompanied by blockade of platelet aggregation , fibrin formation , and clot-bound thrombin in vitro . Boophilin also inhibits kallikrein activity and the reciprocal activation , indicating that it targets the contact pathway. Furthermore , Boophilin inhibits cathepsin G- and plasmin-induced platelet aggregation and partially affects elastase-mediated cleavage of Tissue Factor Pathway Inhibitor ( TFPI ) . Finally , Boophilin inhibits carotid artery occlusion in vivo triggered by FeCl3 , and promotes bleeding according to the mice tail transection method . Through inhibition of several enzymes involved in proteolytic cascades and cell activation , Boophilin plays a major role in keeping the midgut microenvironment at low hemostatic and inflammatory tonus . This response allows ticks to successfully digest a blood meal which is critical for metabolism and egg development . Boophilin is the first tick midgut FXIa anticoagulant also found to inhibit thrombosis .'
 'In mammals, dosage compensation is achieved by doubling the expression of X-linked genes in both sexes, together with X inactivation in females. To determine whether X expression is adjusted depending on ploidy, we used expression arrays to compare X-linked and autosomal gene expression in human triploid cells. While the average X:autosome expression ratio was about 1 in normal diploid cells, this ratio was lower (0.81–0.84) in triploid cells with one active X and higher (1.32–1.4) in triploid cells with two active X's. Thus, overall X-linked gene expression in triploid cells does not strictly respond to an autosomal factor, nor is it adjusted to achieve a perfect balance. Absolute autosomal expression levels per gene copy were similar in triploid versus diploid cells, indicating no apparent global effect on autosomal expression. In triploid cells with two active X's our data support a basic doubling of X-linked gene expression. However, in triploid cells with a single active X, X-linked gene expression is adjusted upward presumably by an epigenetic mechanism that senses the ratio between the number of active X chromosomes and autosomal sets. Such a mechanism may act on a subset of genes whose expression dosage in relation to autosomal expression may be critical. Indeed, we found that there was a range of individual X-linked gene expression in relation to ploidy and that a small subset (∼7%) of genes had expression levels apparently proportional to the number of autosomal sets.'
 'The opportunistic human fungal pathogen Candida albicans undergoes morphological and transcriptional adaptation in the switch from commensalism to pathogenicity. Investigating morphogenetic control by post-translational phosphorylation has generated important regulatory insights into this process. Here we have identified the Fkh2 transcription factor as a regulatory target of both Cdc28 and the cell wall biosynthesis kinase Cbk1, in a role distinct from its conserved function in cell cycle progression. In stationary phase yeast cells, 2D gel electrophoresis shows that there is a diverse pool of Fkh2 phospho-isoforms. For a short window on hyphal induction, far before START in the cell cycle, the phosphorylation profile is transformed before reverting to the yeast profile. This transformation does not occur when stationary phase cells are reinoculated into fresh medium supporting yeast growth. Mass spectrometry and mutational analyses identified residues phosphorylated by Cdc28 and Cbk1. Substitution of these residues with non-phosphorylatable alanine altered the yeast phosphorylation profile and abrogated the characteristic transformation to the hyphal profile. Transcript profiling of the phosphorylation site mutant revealed that the hyphal phosphorylation profile is required for the expression of genes involved in pathogenesis, host interaction and biofilm formation. Furthermore, we identified that Fkh2 interacts with the chromatin modifier Pob3 in a phosphorylation-dependent manner, thereby providing a possible mechanism by which the phosphorylation of Fkh2 regulates its specificity. Thus, we have discovered a novel cell cycle-independent phospho-regulatory event that subverts a key component of the cell cycle machinery to a role in the switch from commensalism to pathogenicity.'
 'Pseudorabies virus (PRV) is a neurotropic virus that causes significant economic losses in the swine industry. The final steps of PRV egress from infected cells are not well understood. To address this, a live-cell fluorescence microscopy method was developed to visualize the final transport and exocytosis of PRV particles in non-polarized epithelial cells. This method is based on total internal reflection fluorescence (TIRF) microscopy to selectively image fluorescent virus particles near the plasma membrane, and takes advantage of a virus-encoded pH-sensitive probe to visualize the precise moment and location of particle exocytosis. Single-particle tracking and mean squared displacement analysis were performed to characterize particle motion, and a panel of cellular proteins was imaged to identify those spatially and dynamically associated with viral exocytosis. Based on these data, individual virus particles travel to the plasma membrane inside small, acidified secretory vesicles. Rab GTPases, key regulators of the plasma membrane-directed secretory pathway, are present on the virus secretory vesicle. These vesicles undergo fast, directional transport directly to the site of exocytosis, which is most frequently near patches of LL5β, part of a complex that anchors microtubules to the plasma membrane. Vesicles are tightly docked at the site of exocytosis for several seconds, and membrane fusion occurs, displacing the virion a small distance across the plasma membrane. After exocytosis, particles remain tightly confined on the outer cell surface. Based on recent reports in the cell biological and alpha herpesvirus literature, combined with our spatial and dynamic data on viral egress, we propose an integrated model that links together the intracellular transport pathways and exocytosis mechanisms that mediate alpha herpesvirus egress.'
 'Influenza viruses are a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide . The viruses are constantly evolving and new strains with different antigenic properties emerge every year . The mortality burden of these new strains can vary greatly . In this study, the authors propose a novel model to predict the mortality burden of influenza viruses based on their antigenic distance to previous strains. They use this model to accurately predict the mortality burden of influenza A (H1N1) viruses. This rapid estimation of influenza mortality burden should help health authorities develop cost-effective strategies for influenza control and prevention.'
 'Leishmania parasites are flagellated protozoans that alternate between extracellular promastigote and intracellular amastigote forms. In this study, the authors investigated whether Leishmania parasites of different species can fuse with each other within the same host cell. They found that promastigotes of the species Leishmania major can fuse with pre-established Leishmania amazonensis amastigote-containing vacuoles, but amastigotes of the same species cannot. The authors suggest that this may be due to differences in the composition of the vacuole membranes. They also found that L. major promastigotes can survive and multiply within L. amazonensis vacuoles, but do not differentiate into amastigotes. The authors suggest that this may be due to the presence of species-specific factors within the vacuole that prevent differentiation. Overall, the study provides insights into the mechanisms of parasite-parasite interactions within host cells.'
 'This study aimed to investigate the importance of insulin signaling in the growth, development, sexual maturation, and egg production of adult schistosomes. We used Biolayer Interferometry to show that human insulin can bind to the L1 subdomain of recombinant SjIR1 and SjIR2, which we previously cloned and partially characterized. We then used RNA interference to knock down the expression of the SjIRs in adult S. japonicum in vitro and found that the transcript levels of other important downstream genes within the insulin pathway were also impacted substantially. In addition, a significant decrease in glucose uptake was observed in the SjIR-knockdown worms compared with luciferase controls. In vaccine/challenge experiments, we found that rSjLD1 and rSjLD2 depressed female growth, intestinal granuloma density, and faecal egg production in S. japonicum in mice presented with a low dose challenge infection. These data re-emphasize the potential of the SjIRs as veterinary transmission blocking vaccine candidates against zoonotic schistosomiasis japonica in China and the Philippines.'
 'Nef is a protein encoded by HIV-1 that is required for sustained virus replication in vivo and accelerated progression to AIDS. In this study, the authors investigated the mechanism by which Nef increases the infectivity of cell-free virions and found that Nef confers as much as 50-fold resistance to two potent neutralizing monoclonal antibodies (nAbs) that target the membrane proximal external region (MPER) of TMgp41. In contrast, Nef had no effect on HIV-1 neutralization by MPER-specific nAb Z13e1, by the peptide inhibitor T20, nor by a panel of nAbs and other reagents targeting gp120. The authors found that this activity requires Nef myristoylation but that it is genetically separable from other Nef functions such as the ability to enhance virus infectivity and to downregulate CD4. Glycosylated-Gag from MoMLV substituted for Nef in conferring resistance to 2F5 and 4E10, indicating that this activity is conserved in a retrovirus that does not encode Nef. The authors propose that Nef alters MPER recognition in the context of the virion membrane, and that this activity has important implications for anti-HIV-1 immunity and AIDS pathogenesis.'
 'The RNA polymerase II ( Pol II ) is a eukaryotic enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of the messenger RNA using a DNA template . Despite numerous biochemical and biophysical studies, it remains elusive whether the “secondary channel” is the only route for NTP to reach the active site of the enzyme or if the “main channel” could be an alternative . On this regard, crystallographic structures of Pol II have been extremely useful to understand the structural basis of transcription, however, the conformation of the unpaired non-template DNA part of the full transcription bubble ( TB ) is still unknown. Since diffusion routes of the nucleoside triphosphate ( NTP ) substrate through the main channel might overlap with the TB region, gaining structural information of the full TB is critical for a complete understanding of Pol II transcription process. In this study, we have built a structural model of Pol II with a complete transcription bubble based on multiple sources of existing structural data and used Molecular Dynamics ( MD ) simulations together with structural analysis to shed light on NTP entry pathways. Interestingly, we found that although both channels have enough space to allow NTP loading, the percentage of MD conformations containing enough space for NTP loading through the secondary channel is twice higher than that of the main channel. Further energetic study based on MD simulations with NTP loaded in the channels has revealed that the diffusion of the NTP through the main channel is greatly disfavored by electrostatic repulsion between the NTP and the highly negatively charged backbones of nucleotides in the non-template DNA strand. Taken together, our results suggest that the secondary channel is the major route for NTP entry during Pol II transcription.'
 'This study investigates how contextual inputs influence the perception of a target object in a 2-D image. Human observers were asked to judge whether a target bar was present in a briefly presented stimulus, given a weak or missing input contrast at the target location with or without a context of other bars. The results show that the context influences the perception in two ways: ( 1 ) biasing observers' prior belief that a target should be present according to visual grouping principles, and ( 2 ) biasing observers' internal model of the likely input contrasts caused by a target bar. The study suggests that cortical areas beyond the primary visual cortex are responsible for the visual inferences. The findings have implications for understanding how the brain perceives and infers objects from ambiguous 2-D images.
 'Lectin-like bacteriotoxic proteins are a type of bacteriocin that are produced by some plant-associated bacteria. These proteins are able to selectively kill closely related species, including several phytopathogens. The crystal structure of LlpABW, the prototype lectin-like bacteriocin from Pseudomonas putida, reveals an architecture of two monocot mannose-binding lectin (MMBL) domains and a C-terminal β-hairpin extension. The N-terminal MMBL domain determines target specificity, while the C-terminal MMBL domain is crucial for bactericidal activity. Differential activity of engineered N/C-domain chimeras derived from two LlpA homologues with different killing spectra disclosed that the N-domain determines target specificity. Apparently, this bacteriocin is assembled from two structurally similar domains that evolved separately towards dedicated functions in target recognition and bacteriotoxicity.'
149 bacterial species were analyzed to determine the pattern of synonymous genetic variation. The results show a large excess of synonymous GC→AT mutations over AT→GC mutations segregating in all but the most AT-rich bacteria, across a broad range of phylogenetically diverse species. This is inconsistent with mutation bias, suggesting that there is selection to increase synonymous GC-content in many species. Since synonymous GC-content is highly correlated to genomic GC-content, it is further concluded that there is selection on genomic base composition in many bacteria.
 'Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by the expansion of a CAG repeat in the huntingtin gene. The expansion leads to the production of a mutant huntingtin protein that is toxic to cells. The disease is characterized by progressive brain degeneration, leading to loss of movement, cognitive impairment, and emotional problems. The expansion of the CAG repeat is unstable in somatic tissues, which accelerates disease progression. The mechanisms underlying repeat instability are complex, and it remains unclear whether chromatin structure and/or transcription contribute to somatic CAG instability in vivo. To address these issues, we investigated the relationship between chromatin structure, transcription, and tissue-selective CAG instability using the R6/1 and R6/2 HD transgenic mouse lines. These mice express a similar transgene, albeit integrated at a different site, and recapitulate HD tissue-specific instability. We show that instability rates are increased in R6/2 tissues as compared to R6/1 matched-samples. High transgene expression levels and chromatin accessibility correlated with the increased CAG instability of R6/2 mice. Transgene mRNA and H3K4 trimethylation at the HD locus were increased, whereas H3K9 dimethylation was reduced in R6/2 tissues relative to R6/1 matched-tissues. However, the levels of transgene expression and these specific histone marks were similar in the striatum and cerebellum, two tissues showing very different CAG instability levels, irrespective of mouse line. Interestingly, the levels of elongating RNA Pol II at the HD locus, but not the initiating form of RNA Pol II, were tissue-specific and correlated with CAG instability levels. Similarly, H3K36 trimethylation, a mark associated with transcription elongation, was specifically increased at the HD locus in the striatum and not in the cerebellum. Together, our data support the view that transcription elongation is regulated in a tissue-dependent manner, contributing to tissue-selective CAG instability. More specifically, our results suggest for the first time that transcription elongation is regulated in a tissue-dependent manner, contributing to tissue-selective CAG instability.'
 'Neglected tropical diseases ( NTDs ) are a group of diseases that affect the poorest people in the world. Research on NTDs has increased in recent decades, but significant need-gaps in diagnostic and treatment tools remain. We used bibliometric data from published research to identify and map NTD research networks in Germany and their partners abroad. We found that the majority of co-authors outside Germany were from high-income countries and Brazil, while collaborations with partners on the African continent remained scattered. NTD research within Germany was distributed among 220 research institutions. We identified strong performers on an individual level by using classic parameters (number of publications, h-index) and social network analysis parameters (betweenness centrality). The research network characteristics varied strongly between diseases. The share of NTD publications with German affiliations is approximately half of its share in other fields of medical research. This finding underlines the need to identify barriers and expand Germany’s otherwise strong research activities towards NTDs. A geospatial analysis of research collaborations with partners abroad can support decisions to strengthen research capacity, particularly in low- and middle-income countries. Identifying knowledge hubs within individual researcher networks complements traditional scientometric indicators that are used to identify opportunities for collaboration. Using free tools to analyse research processes and output could facilitate data-driven health policies. Our findings contribute to the prioritisation of efforts in German NTD research at a time of impending local and global policy decisions.'
 'Chagas disease is a major vector-borne disease in Latin America, and non-domiciliated vectors remain responsible for a significant transmission risk. A mathematical model was developed to predict the temporal variations in abundance of non-domiciliated vectors inside houses. The model accurately fitted and predicted field data in the absence and presence of insecticide spraying. Pyrethroid spraying was found effective when 50 mg/m2 were applied yearly within a two-month period matching the immigration season. Insect screens consistently reduced bug abundance proportionally to the reduction of the vector immigration rate. Control of non-domiciliated vectors can hardly be achieved by insecticide spraying, but insect screens may offer an effective and sustainable alternative.'
 'The study examined the influence of social information on discounting preferences in a large community study of 14–24 year olds. The study found that participants displayed decision variability which was better accounted for by a random-taste than by a response-noise model. The study also found that apparent taste shifts were well described by a Bayesian model taking into account taste uncertainty and the relevance of social information. The findings have important neuroscientific, clinical and developmental significance.'
 'Rice is an important crop worldwide, but its interaction with ethylene and auxin in root growth and development is still unclear. In this study, we found that the transcriptional activation of OsEIL1 on the expression of YUC8/REIN7 and IPA-dependent auxin biosynthesis is required for ethylene-inhibited root elongation. Using an inhibitor of YUC activity, we showed that ethylene-inhibited primary root elongation is dependent on YUC-based auxin biosynthesis. By screening phenotypes of seedling primary root from mutagenesis libraries following ethylene treatment, we identified a rice ethylene-insensitive mutant, rein7-1, in which YUC8/REIN7 is truncated at its C-terminus. Mutation in YUC8/REIN7 reduced auxin biosynthesis in rice, while YUC8/REIN7 overexpression enhanced ethylene sensitivity in the roots. Moreover, YUC8/REIN7 catalyzed the conversion of IPA to IAA, truncated version at C-terminal end of the YUC8/REIN7 resulted in significant reduction of enzymatic activity, indicating that YUC8/REIN7 is required for IPA-dependent auxin biosynthesis and ethylene-inhibited root elongation in rice early seedlings. Further investigations indicated that ethylene induced YUC8/REIN7 expression and promoted auxin accumulation in roots. Addition of low concentrations of IAA rescued the ethylene response in the rein7-1, strongly demonstrating that ethylene-inhibited root elongation depends on IPA-dependent auxin biosynthesis. Genetic studies revealed that YUC8/REIN7-mediated auxin biosynthesis functioned downstream of OsEIL1, which directly activated the expression of YUC8/REIN7. Thus, our findings reveal a model of interaction between ethylene and auxin in rice seedling primary root elongation, enhancing our understanding of ethylene signaling in rice.'
 'Long noncoding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) are a class of RNA molecules that are longer than 200 nucleotides and have important roles in various cellular processes. The lncRNA MALAT1 is upregulated in cancer tissues and its elevated expression is associated with hyper-proliferation. In this study, the authors demonstrate that MALAT1 levels are regulated during normal cell cycle progression. Genome-wide transcriptome analyses in normal human diploid fibroblasts reveal that MALAT1 modulates the expression of cell cycle genes and is required for G1/S and mitotic progression. Depletion of MALAT1 leads to activation of p53 and its target genes. The cell cycle defects observed in MALAT1-depleted cells are sensitive to p53 levels, indicating that p53 is a major downstream mediator of MALAT1 activity. Furthermore, MALAT1-depleted cells display reduced expression of B-MYB ( Mybl2 ), an oncogenic transcription factor involved in G2/M progression, due to altered binding of splicing factors on B-MYB pre-mRNA and aberrant alternative splicing. In human cells, MALAT1 promotes cellular proliferation by modulating the expression and/or pre-mRNA processing of cell cycle–regulated transcription factors. These findings provide mechanistic insights on the role of MALAT1 in regulating cellular proliferation.'
 ' HIV-1 is primarily transmitted through vaginal intercourse, where the virus is deposited on the cervico-vaginal mucosa. Semen, which contains many biological factors, may affect HIV-1 transmission. One such factor is interleukin (IL)-7, a cytokine that is found in high concentrations in semen of healthy individuals and is further increased in semen of HIV-1-infected men. In an ex vivo system of human cervico-vaginal tissue, we found that IL-7 significantly enhanced HIV-1 replication. Similarly, we observed an enhancement of HIV-1 replication in lymphoid tissue explants. Analysis of T cells isolated from infected tissues showed that IL-7 reduced CD4+ T cell depletion and prevented apoptosis, as evidenced by the decrease in the number of cells expressing the apoptotic marker APO2 and the increase in the expression of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. IL-7 also increased the fraction of cycling CD4+ T cells, as evidenced by staining for the nuclear factor Ki-67. High levels of seminal IL-7 in vivo may be relevant to the survival of the founder pool of HIV-1-infected cells in the cervico-vaginal mucosa at the initial stage of infection, promoting local expansion and dissemination of HIV infection. '
 'The evolutionary origins of genetic robustness are still under debate. In this study, we conducted a large-scale computational study to chart the level of robustness of metabolic networks of hundreds of bacterial species across many simulated growth environments. We provide evidence that variations among species in their level of robustness reflect ecological adaptations. We decouple metabolic robustness into two components and quantify the extents of each: the first, environmental-dependent, is responsible for at least 20% of the non-essential reactions and its extent is associated with the species' lifestyle; the second, environmental-independent, is associated with the intrinsic metabolic capacities of a species. Finally, we identify reactions that are uniquely susceptible to perturbations in human pathogens, potentially serving as novel drug-targets.'
 'Histone chaperones are proteins that help to assemble and disassemble nucleosomes, the basic units of chromatin. The DNA replication-coupled nucleosome assembly pathway is important for maintaining transcriptional gene silencing and genome stability. Elongator is a histone acetyltransferase that is required for DNA replication-coupled nucleosome assembly. Cells lacking Elp3, the catalytic subunit of Elongator, are defective in transcriptional silencing and are sensitive to DNA damaging agents. Elp3 interacts with PCNA, a protein involved in DNA replication, and is one of the HATs responsible for acetylating H4K8 in vivo. These results reveal a novel role of Elongator in maintaining genome stability.'
 'Vaccines are an effective way to prevent infectious diseases, but determining the optimal inoculum dose is important for balancing immune protection and morbidity. Mathematical models can be used to predict how changes in inoculum dose impact immune protection and morbidity. We developed a quantitative modeling framework using data from influenza A virus and human parainfluenza virus infection experiments. Our framework can be used to determine the optimal inoculum dose for a given vaccine and setting. We also investigated a scenario for an inactivated vaccine. While our results are not directly applicable to human vaccines, our framework can be used to rationally design vaccines and determine the optimal inoculum dose for any pathogen.'
 'DNA methylation is a key epigenetic modification that plays an important role in the regulation of gene expression. Changes in DNA methylation patterns have been implicated in the development of cancer. The Dnmt3a enzyme is required for the establishment of normal methylation patterns and mutations in Dnmt3a have been described in leukemias. In this study, the authors used whole-genome bisulfite sequencing to comprehensively characterize the methylomes from Dnmt3a wildtype and Dnmt3a-deficient mouse lung tumors. They found that profound global methylation changes can occur in K-ras–induced lung cancer and that Dnmt3a is required for efficient maintenance methylation of active chromosome domains. The authors conclude that their results uncover conserved features of cancer methylomes and define the role of Dnmt3a in maintaining DNA methylation patterns in cancer.'
 'The PR interval on the electrocardiogram reflects the time it takes for an electrical signal to travel from the atria to the ventricles of the heart. The PR interval is heritable and provides important information about arrhythmia risk. Genome-wide association studies have identified common genetic determinants of the PR interval in individuals of European and Asian ancestry, but there is a general paucity of such studies in individuals of African ancestry. We performed GWA studies in African American individuals from four cohorts to identify genetic variants associated with PR interval duration. We observed a strong signal within the gene encoding the cardiac sodium channel with genome-wide significant association in two of the four cohorts and in the meta-analysis. The signal explained 2% of PR interval variability in African Americans. This SNP was also associated with PR interval in individuals of European ancestry, but with a smaller effect size. Further meta-analysis of the four cohorts identified genome-wide significant associations with SNPs in three other loci previously associated with PR interval in European and Asian samples. Our findings demonstrate the relevance of common variants to African Americans at four loci previously associated with PR interval in European and Asian samples and identify an association signal at one of these loci that is more strongly associated with PR interval in African Americans than in Europeans.'
 'Inhibitory interneurons play critical roles in shaping the firing patterns of principal neurons in many brain systems. Despite differences in the anatomy or functions of neuronal circuits containing inhibition, two basic motifs repeatedly emerge: feed-forward and feedback. In the locust, it was proposed that a subset of lateral horn interneurons provide feed-forward inhibition onto Kenyon cells to maintain their sparse firing, a property critical for olfactory learning and memory. However, recently it was established that a single inhibitory cell, the giant GABAergic neuron, is the main and perhaps sole source of inhibition in the mushroom body, and that inhibition from this cell is mediated by a feedback (FB) loop including KCs and the GGN. To clarify basic differences in the effects of feedback vs. feed-forward inhibition in circuit dynamics, we here use a model of the locust olfactory system. We found both inhibitory motifs were able to maintain sparse KCs responses and provide optimal odor discrimination. However, we further found that only FB inhibition could create a phase response consistent with data recorded in vivo. These findings describe general rules for feed-forward versus feedback inhibition and suggest GGN is potentially capable of providing the primary source of inhibition to the KCs. A better understanding of how inhibitory motifs impact post-synaptic neuronal activity could be used to reveal unknown inhibitory structures within biological networks.'
 The BRCA Challenge is a global initiative to develop a comprehensive, standardized, and secure system for sharing and curating data on BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants. The BRCA Exchange is the central component of this initiative, providing a web portal and mobile application for variant annotation and sharing. The BRCA Exchange is built on a pipeline that merges and validates variant data from multiple sources, including ClinVar , LOVD , BIC , and ExAC . The BRCA Exchange is designed to be a stable, scalable, and secure resource for variant annotation and sharing, with a focus on clinical utility and patient advocacy. The BRCA Challenge is a model for data sharing across genes and regulatory regions of major clinical importance .
 'The RAS/MAPK pathway is a key signaling pathway that regulates cell proliferation and differentiation. In this study, the authors conducted a genome-wide RNAi screen in Drosophila S2 cells to identify factors that regulate RAS-mediated MAPK activation. They identified 101 validated hits, including most of the previously known factors associated with this pathway. Epistasis experiments were then carried out on individual candidates to determine their position relative to core pathway components. While most hits unexpectedly worked downstream of MEK and specifically influenced MAPK expression, the authors found that most hits consisted of constitutive splicing factors and suggested that splicing plays a specific role in establishing MAPK levels. They further characterized two representative members of this group and found that they act by regulating mapk alternative splicing. This study provides an unprecedented assessment of the factors modulating RAS/MAPK signaling in Drosophila and suggests that core splicing components can also specifically impact alternative splicing.'
 'Recent years have seen the development of numerous methodologies for reconstructing transmission trees in infectious disease outbreaks from densely sampled whole genome sequence data. However, a fundamental and as of yet poorly addressed limitation of such approaches is the requirement for genetic diversity to arise on epidemiological timescales. Specifically, the position of infected individuals in a transmission tree can only be resolved by genetic data if mutations have accumulated between the sampled pathogen genomes. To quantify and compare the useful genetic diversity expected from genetic data in different pathogen outbreaks, we introduce here the concept of ‘transmission divergence’ defined as the number of mutations separating whole genome sequences sampled from transmission pairs. Using parameter values obtained by literature review, we simulate outbreak scenarios alongside sequence evolution using two models described in the literature to describe transmission divergence of ten major outbreak-causing pathogens. We find that while mean values vary significantly between the pathogens considered, their transmission divergence is generally very low, with many outbreaks characterised by large numbers of genetically identical transmission pairs. We describe the impact of transmission divergence on our ability to reconstruct outbreaks using two outbreak reconstruction tools, the R packages outbreaker and phybreak, and demonstrate that, in agreement with previous observations, genetic sequence data of rapidly evolving pathogens such as RNA viruses can provide valuable information on individual transmission events. Conversely, sequence data of pathogens with lower mean transmission divergence, including Streptococcus pneumoniae, Shigella sonnei and Clostridium difficile, provide little to no information about individual transmission events. Our results highlight the informational limitations of genetic sequence data in certain outbreak scenarios and demonstrate the need to expand the toolkit of outbreak reconstruction tools to integrate other types of epidemiological data.'
 'Dengue fever is a viral infection caused by one of four types of dengue virus (DENV-1-4). Most DENV infections are subclinical, but some can lead to severe illness. The mechanisms controlling these differential clinical outcomes are not well understood. In this study, researchers collected blood samples from a cohort of school-aged Thai children who subsequently experienced a subclinical DENV infection or developed dengue illness. PBMC collected prior to infection were stimulated in vitro with DENV and the secretion of 30 cytokines was measured using a multiplexed, bead-based array. Significant differences were found in cytokine production based on both the type of DENV used for stimulation and the occurrence of clinical illness. IL-15 and MCP-1 were significantly higher in PBMC of subjects who later developed symptomatic DENV infection, while IL-6 was produced by PBMC from all subjects who subsequently developed symptomatic infection. IL-12, IL-2R, MIP-1α, RANTES, GM-CSF, and TNFα were significantly lower in PBMC from subjects with symptomatic infection. These data demonstrate significant differences in pre-existing immune responses to DENV associated with the clinical outcome of subsequent infection. The finding of higher levels of some cytokines in subjects with symptomatic infection and higher levels of other cytokines in subjects with subclinical infection supports the existence of both protective and pathologic immune profiles. Clinical-immunological correlations identified in the context of natural DENV infection may be useful for evaluating immune responses to dengue vaccines.'
