 'Mesenchymal stem and stromal cells ( MSCs ) are found in nearly every vascularized tissue and play a key role in maintaining homeostasis and regeneration of organs . Lung-resident ( LR ) MSCs are localized in perivascular niches of small and larger blood vessels in the alveolar niche and promote alveolar cell growth, differentiation, and self-renewal . The human respiratory syncytial virus ( RSV ) is a highly prevalent respiratory pathogen that causes severe outcomes in infants and is a natural pathogen of ruminants . We used primary pediatric LR-MSCs and a state-of-the-art model of human RSV infection in lamb to investigate the role of LR-MSCs during virus-induced lung injury . We found that RSV infection of pediatric LR-MSCs led to a robust activation, characterized by a strong antiviral and pro-inflammatory phenotype combined with mediators related to T cell function. In line with this, following in vivo infection, RSV invades and activates LR-MSCs, resulting in the expansion of the pulmonary MSC pool. Moreover, the global transcriptional response of LR-MSCs appears to follow RSV disease, switching from an early antiviral signature to repair mechanisms including differentiation, tissue remodeling, and angiogenesis. These findings demonstrate the involvement of LR-MSCs during virus-mediated acute lung injury and may have therapeutic implications.'
 'Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a parasitic disease that affects the spleen, liver, and bone marrow. It is endemic in South Sudan, where it is caused by the protozoan Leishmania donovani parasite and transmitted by phlebotomine sandflies. Pregnant women are considered particularly vulnerable for developing complications of VL disease, including opportunistic infections. There is limited evidence available about clinical aspects and treatment outcomes of VL in pregnancy. We describe characteristics, maternal and pregnancy outcomes from a cohort of pregnant women with VL. We conducted a retrospective analysis using routine programme data from a MSF health facility in Lankien, Jonglei State, South Sudan, between Oct 2014 and April 2018. Records were extracted of women diagnosed with VL while pregnant, and those symptomatic during pregnancy but diagnosed during the first two weeks postpartum. Records were matched with a random sample of non-pregnant women of reproductive age (15–45 years) with VL from the same period. We included 113 women with VL in pregnancy and 223 non-pregnant women with VL. Women with VL in pregnancy presented with more severe anaemia, were more likely to need blood transfusion, and were more often prescribed antibiotics, as compared to non-pregnant women with VL. Adverse pregnancy outcomes, including miscarriage and premature delivery, were reported in 20% where VL was diagnosed in pregnancy and 50% where VL was diagnosed postpartum. Postpartum haemorrhage was common. Pregnant women were more likely to require extension of treatment to achieve cure, as compared to non-pregnant women with VL. Nevertheless, overall initial cure rates were high (96.5%) and mortality was low (1.8%) in this cohort of pregnant women with VL. Our data suggest that good maternal survival rates are possible in resource-limited settings, despite the high incidence of complications. '
 'Typhoid fever is a serious public health problem in many parts of the world, particularly in low-income countries. The disease is caused by Salmonella enterica subspecies enterica serovar Typhi (S. Typhi), which is a highly contagious bacterium that spreads through contaminated food and water. The emergence of multidrug-resistant (MDR) strains of S. Typhi poses a significant challenge to the treatment and control of the disease. In this study, we sequenced the genomes of S. Typhi isolates from an urban informal settlement in Nairobi, Kenya, over a 12-year period to understand the evolutionary history of these strains and their relationship to global typhoid isolates. We found that the S. Typhi isolates in Kibera belong to four distinct clades, one of which is frequently associated with MDR genes. Our findings highlight the importance of monitoring the genetic diversity and antimicrobial resistance patterns of S. Typhi strains to guide the selection of effective antibiotics for patient management. The study also provides insights into the emergence and spread of MDR strains of S. Typhi in sub-Saharan Africa, which can inform public health policies and interventions to control the disease.'
 'This study reports the development of a human monoclonal antibody (hmAb) that neutralizes multiple human coronaviruses, including SARS-CoV-2, SARS-CoV, and MERS-CoV. The hmAb, named 1249A8, was isolated from a convalescent subject who had recovered from COVID-19. 1249A8 recognizes a highly conserved region of the coronavirus spike protein, which is responsible for viral entry into host cells. The study found that 1249A8 neutralizes SARS-CoV-2, including all variants of concern (VOCs) tested, and also neutralizes SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV. 1249A8 was found to be effective in preventing weight loss and reducing viral burden in the lungs of hamsters infected with SARS-CoV-2 Delta. The study also found that 1249A8 can be delivered directly to the respiratory tract through intranasal administration, which may improve its therapeutic efficacy. The study suggests that 1249A8 could be a promising candidate for the development of a universal coronavirus vaccine or therapeutic. '
'Metabolic gene clusters ( MGCs ) are composed of co-localized genes whose products participate in the same metabolic pathway. In most cases, their functions are linked to the production of secondary metabolites or the assimilation of unconventional substrates. In this study, we determine the chromosome level assembly of the C . parapsilosis strain CLIB214 and use it for transcriptomic and proteomic investigation of cells cultivated on hydroxyaromatic substrates. We demonstrate that the genes coding for enzymes and plasma membrane transporters involved in the 3-oxoadipate and gentisate pathways are highly upregulated and their expression is controlled in a substrate-specific manner. However, regulatory proteins involved in this process are not known. Using the knockout mutants, we show that putative transcriptional factors encoded by the genes Otf1p and Gtf1p located within these gene clusters function as transcriptional activators of the 3-oxoadipate and gentisate pathway, respectively. We also propose that bicarbonate ions resulting from decarboxylation of hydroxybenzoates also contribute to differences in the cell responses to hydroxybenzoates and hydroxybenzenes. Finally, our phylogenetic analysis highlights evolutionary paths leading to metabolic adaptations of yeast cells assimilating hydroxyaromatic substrates. '
 'The goal of this study is to develop a method for training and simulating neural networks that contain biologically detailed neuron models and perform useful cognitive operations. The method, called "oracle-supervised Neural Engineering Framework" (osNEF), is an extension of core Neural Engineering Framework (NEF) principles that utilizes an "oracle," a parallel network that is used during training to supervise the learning process. One major advantage of osNEF is that it treats the neuron model as a "black box," relying on learning rules that only consider the spiking inputs and outputs to each cell. Because it does not rely on detailed knowledge of cellular dynamics, osNEF can be applied to a wide range of neuron models without major changes to the algorithm. To facilitate easy adoption of osNEF, the authors develop an interface where modellers may plug in existing neuron models, written in Python or NEURON, to the general-purpose Nengo simulator. The authors show that osNEF can be used to construct a variety of functional neural networks from various biologically detailed components, allowing researchers to investigate questions that relate low-level biological details to high-level cognitive capacity. The authors demonstrate these capabilities by simulating networks of biologically detailed neurons and training them to implement specific dynamics, such as addition, multiplication, oscillation, and integration. They also construct a biologically-detailed model of working memory in PFC that performs an idealized memory task. The authors conclude with a discussion of the strengths and limitations of osNEF, including its biological plausibility and cognitive generality.'
'Down syndrome (DS) is a genetic disorder caused by the complete or partial trisomy of human chromosome 21 (HSA21). The trisomy does not simply result in the upregulation of HSA21-encoded genes but also leads to a genome-wide transcriptomic deregulation. We performed a meta-analysis integrating the differential expression (DE) analyses of all publicly available transcriptomic datasets, both in human and mouse, comparing trisomic and euploid transcriptomes from different sources. We integrated all these data in a “DS network” and found that genome-wide deregulation as a consequence of trisomy 21 is not arbitrary but involves deregulation of specific molecular cascades in which both HSA21 genes and HSA21 interactors are more consistently deregulated compared to other genes. In fact, gene deregulation happens in “clusters” so that groups from 2 to 13 genes are found consistently deregulated. Most of these events of “co-deregulation” involve genes belonging to the same GO category and genes associated with the same disease class. The most consistent changes are enriched in interferon related categories and neutrophil activation, reinforcing the concept that DS is an inflammatory disease. Our results also suggest that the impact of the trisomy might diverge in each tissue due to the different gene set deregulation, even though the triplicated genes are the same. We created “metaDEA” an R package that uses our method to integrate every kind of transcriptomic data and therefore could be used with other complex disorders, such as cancer. We also created a user-friendly web application to query Ensembl gene IDs and retrieve all the information of their differential expression across the datasets. Our meta-analysis revealed that genes mapping on HSA21 and their interactors tended to be deregulated across different tissues, while non-HSA21 genes were less consistently DE. Interestingly, genes co-DE often belonged to the same molecular process or were associated with the same disease ontologies. Our meta-analysis also shed light on previously unreported DS genes, such as Etnppl, that we found upregulated upon learning in wild type but not in trisomic mice. We also created a user-friendly web-application to query specific ensembl gene IDs and get their DE data across the databases. Our meta-analysis revealed that genes mapping on HSA21 and their interactors tended to be deregulated across different tissues, while non-HSA21 genes were less consistently DE. Interestingly, genes co-DE often belonged to the same molecular process or were associated with the same disease ontologies. Our meta-analysis also shed light on previously unreported DS genes, such as Etnppl, that we found upregulated upon learning in wild type but not in trisomic mice. We also created a user-friendly web-application to query specific ensembl gene IDs and get their DE data across the databases. Our meta-analysis revealed that genes mapping on HSA21 and their interactors tended to be deregulated across different tissues, while non-HSA21 genes were less consistently DE. Interestingly, genes co-DE often belonged to the same molecular process or were associated with the same disease ontologies. Our meta-analysis also shed light on previously unreported DS genes, such as Etnppl, that we found upregulated upon learning in wild type but not in trisomic mice. We also created a user-friendly web-application to query specific ensembl gene IDs and get their DE data across the databases. Our meta-analysis revealed that genes mapping on HSA21 and their interactors tended to be deregulated across different tissues, while non-HSA21 genes were less consistently DE. Interestingly, genes co-DE often belonged to the same molecular process or were associated with the same disease ontologies. Our meta-analysis also shed light on previously unreported DS genes, such as Etnppl, that we found upregulated upon learning in wild type but not in trisomic mice. We also created a user-friendly web-application to query specific ensembl gene IDs and get their DE data across the databases. Our meta-analysis revealed that genes mapping on HSA21 and their interactors tended to be deregulated across different tissues, while non-HSA21 genes were less consistently DE. Interestingly, genes co-DE often belonged to the same molecular process or were associated with the same disease ontologies. Our meta-analysis also shed light on previously unreported DS genes, such as Etnppl, that we found up
 'Ongoing oscillations and evoked responses are two main types of neuronal activity that can be recorded with diverse electrophysiological techniques such as EEG/MEG/iEEG/LFP. Although typically studied separately, they may be closely related. One possibility is that neuronal oscillations have non-zero mean which predicts that stimulus- or task-triggered amplitude modulation of oscillations can contribute to the generation of evoked responses. In this study, we validated this mechanism using computational modeling and analysis of a large EEG data set. With a biophysical model, we demonstrated that intracellular currents in the neuron are asymmetric and, consequently, the mean of alpha oscillations is non-zero. To understand the effect that neuronal currents exert on oscillatory mean, we varied several biophysical and morphological properties of neurons in the network, such as voltage-gated channel densities, length of dendrites, and intensity of incoming stimuli. For a very large range of model parameters, we observed evidence for non-zero mean of oscillations. Complimentary, we analyzed empirical rest EEG recordings of 90 participants (50 young, 40 elderly) and, with spatio-spectral decomposition, detected at least one spatially-filtred oscillatory component of non-zero mean alpha oscillations in 93% of participants. In order to explain a complex relationship between the dynamics of amplitude-envelope and corresponding baseline shifts, we performed additional simulations with simple oscillators coupled with different time delays. We demonstrated that the extent of spatial synchronization may obscure macroscopic estimation of alpha rhythm modulation while leaving baseline shifts unchanged. Overall, our results predict that amplitude modulation of neural oscillations should at least partially explain the generation of evoked responses. Therefore, inference about changes in evoked responses with respect to cognitive conditions, age, or neuropathologies should be constructed while taking into account oscillatory neuronal dynamics.'
 'Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever virus ( CCHFV ) is a tick-borne virus that can cause a hemorrhagic fever in humans with a case fatality rate of up to 40% . CCHFV has been reported in Africa, Asia, and southern Europe, and recently, due to the expanding range of its vector, autochthonous cases have been reported in Spain . Although it was discovered over 70 years ago, our understanding of the pathogenesis of this virus remains limited. We used RNA-Seq in two human liver cell lines infected with CCHFV to examine kinetic changes in host expression and viral replication simultaneously at 1 and 3 days post infection. Through this, numerous host pathways were identified that were modulated by the virus, including antiviral response and endothelial cell leakage. Additionally, we performed whole-genome sequencing on CCHFV to assess viral diversity over time and its relationship to the host response. As a result, we have demonstrated that through next-generation mRNA deep-sequencing it is possible to not only examine mRNA gene expression but also to examine viral evolution. We have also identified key pathways that are upregulated or downregulated in liver cell lines, which may be involved in endothelial cell leakage in the context of CCHFV. This study provides valuable insights into the pathogenesis of CCHFV and may lead to the identification of potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets.'
'Working memory ( WM ) deficits have been widely documented in schizophrenia ( SZ ) and are often attributed to decreased capacity as compared to healthy control ( HC ) subjects . However, recent developments in WM research suggest that other components, such as precision, also mediate behavioral performance . It remains unclear how different WM components jointly contribute to deficits in schizophrenia . We measured the performance of 60 SZ ( 31 females ) and 61 HC ( 29 females ) in a classical delay-estimation visual working memory ( VWM ) task and evaluated several influential computational models proposed in basic science of VWM to disentangle the effect of various memory components . We show that the model assuming variable precision ( VP ) across items and trials is the best model to explain the performance of both groups . According to the VP model , SZ exhibited abnormally larger variability of allocating memory resources rather than resources or capacity per se . Finally , individual differences in the resource allocation variability predicted variation of symptom severity in SZ , highlighting its functional relevance to schizophrenic pathology . Our findings provide an alternative view instead of the widely accepted decreased-capacity theory and highlight the key role of elevated resource allocation variability in generating atypical VWM behavior in schizophrenia . Our findings also shed new light on the utility of Bayesian observer models to characterize mechanisms of mental deficits in clinical neuroscience .', Introduction: 'Schizophrenia is a severe mental disorder accompanied by a range of dysfunctions in perceptual and cognitive behavior , among which working memory deficits are considered as one of the core behavioral markers [1–4] . As a key function to temporally store and manipulate information in order to guide appropriate behavior , working memory has been shown to link with a broad range of other cognitive domains , including perception , attention , problem-solving , and executive control [5–8] . Dysfunctions in working memory therefore might cascade into multiple negative consequences [2 , 3 , 9] . A well-established finding in lab-based experiments is that people with schizophrenia ( SZ ) exhibit worse performance than healthy control ( HC ) participants in visual working memory ( VWM ) tasks [2] . This phenomenon has long been attributed to decreased VWM capacity in SZ [2 , 10 , 11] . The theory of decreased capacity was supported by the previous studies that employed various VWM or other WM tasks , including the ‘span’ tasks ( e . g . , digit span , spatial span , verbal span ) [12 , 13] , the N-back task [14–16] , the delayed-response task [17–19] , the change detection task [20–24] and the delay-estimation task [11 , 25 , 26] . Other reasons that can account for worse WM performance mainly include attention and executive control . SZ patients are more likely to be distracted by task-irrelevant distractors [26–28] and environmental stimuli [29] . This attentional deficit may be related to executive functions that have overlapped cognitive mechanisms and neural networks with working memory [13 , 30–32] . However , although there are various theories debating the cause of WM deficits in SZ , decreased memory capacity may be the most robust factor that have been proved by many studies . Besides capacity , researchers have increasingly recognized memory precision as another pivotal determinant of VWM performance [33] . Precision reflects the amount of memory resources assigned to individual items—a larger amount of resources assigned to an item results in higher memory precision of that item . At the neural level , low perceptual precision might arise from either the intrinsic noise in neural processing [34–36] or the fluctuations of cognitive factors ( e . g . , arousal , attention ) [36 , 37] . Atypically increased variability in both behavioral and neural responses has been discovered in patients with mental diseases such as autism spectrum disorder [38 , 39] , dyslexia [40] , and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder [41] . These theoretical and empirical studies raise the possibility that SZ might have impaired memory precision rather than diminished memory capacity—that is , SZ generally process and maintain items in a less precise manner . Only a few studies have attempted to simultaneously quantify memory capacity and precision in schizophrenic or schizotypy participants , and the results did not reach a consensus [11 , 25] . Despite the confound of
 'HIV-1 Env is a complex glycoprotein that mediates viral entry through a series of conformational changes. The gp41 transmembrane subunit of Env is critical for virus-cell membrane fusion, but its role in natural infection is less well characterized. Here, we identified a primary HIV-1 Env variant with a Q563R change in gp41 that consistently supports >300% increased viral infectivity in the presence of autologous or heterologous HIV-positive plasma. However, in the absence of HIV-positive plasma, viruses with this Env exhibited reduced infectivity that was not due to decreased CD4 binding. Using Env chimeras and sequence analysis, we mapped this phenotype to the Q563R change in gp41. We demonstrate that Q563R reduces viral infection by disrupting formation of the gp41 six-helix bundle required for virus-cell membrane fusion. Intriguingly, antibodies that bind cluster I epitopes on gp41 overcome this inhibitory effect, restoring infectivity to wild-type levels. We further demonstrate that the Q563R change increases HIV-1 sensitivity to broadly neutralizing antibodies ( bNAbs ) targeting the gp41 membrane-proximal external region ( MPER ). In summary, we identify an HIV-1 Env variant with impaired infectivity whose Env functionality is restored through the binding of host antibodies. These data contribute to our understanding of gp41 residues involved in membrane fusion and identify a mechanism by which host factors can alleviate a viral defect. ', Keyword: 'HIV-1 Env, gp41, viral entry, conformational changes, fusion peptide, six-helix bundle, fusion pore, CD4 binding, coreceptor binding, gp120, gp41, membrane-proximal external region, broadly neutralizing antibodies, MPER, fusion inhibitors, T20, antiviral factors, immunologic techniques, proteins, amino acids, chemistry, arginine, membrane fusion, research and analysis methods, organisms, viral transmission and infection, HIV-1, physical sciences, immunology, biochemistry, viral pathogens, cell biology, immunoassays, retroviruses, viral diseases, viruses, organic compounds, infectious diseases, microbial pathogens, medicine and health sciences, medical microbiology, basic amino acids, monoclonal antibodies, RNA viruses, biology and life sciences, cellular structures and organelles, virology, enzyme-linked immunoassays, microbiology, physiology, chemical compounds, pathology and laboratory medicine, antibodies, immunodeficiency viruses, organic chemistry, viral entry, immune system proteins, immune physiology'.
 'COMSUC is a web server that allows users to explore consensus molecular subtypes of more than 30 cancers based on eight clustering methods, five types of omics data from public reference datasets or users’ private data, and three consensus clustering methods. COMSUC provides interactive and modifiable visualization and publishable output of analysis results. Researchers can also exchange consensus subtype results with collaborators via project IDs. COMSUC is now publicly and freely available with no login requirement at http://comsuc.bioinforai.tech/. For a video summary of this web server, see S1 Video and S1 File. COMSUC is a valuable resource for researchers seeking to identify cancer consensus molecular subtypes through the integration of discrepant clustering results from multi-methods and multi-omics data. COMSUC is free and open to all users and has no login requirement. COMSUC deploys eight typical clustering methods and three consensus clustering approaches. It can be used to identify consensus molecular subtypes of more than 30 cancers. COMSUC data are from three cancer research projects [The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) , the International Cancer Genome Consortium ( ICGC ) , and TARGET] [2 , 4]; users’ private datasets can also be entered. COMSUC provides a user-friendly tool for the integration of discrepant cancer clustering results generated by multiple methods and multi-omics data from multiple platforms. COMSUC is expected to provide powerful support for users’ efforts to decipher cancer consensus molecular subtypes and for the development of a consensus classification system integrating different clustering results. COMSUC is now available at http://comsuc.bioinforai.tech/ ( IP address: http://59.110.25.27/ ) . It is free and open to all users and has no login requirement. COMSUC deploys eight typical clustering methods and three consensus clustering approaches. It can be used to identify consensus molecular subtypes of more than 30 cancers. COMSUC data are from three cancer research projects [The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) , the International Cancer Genome Consortium ( ICGC ) , and TARGET] [2 , 4]; users’ private datasets can also be entered. COMSUC provides a user-friendly tool for the integration of discrepant cancer clustering results generated by multiple methods and multi-omics data from multiple platforms. COMSUC is expected to provide powerful support for users’ efforts to decipher cancer consensus molecular subtypes and for the development of a consensus classification system integrating different clustering results. COMSUC is now available at http://comsuc.bioinforai.tech/ ( IP address: http://59.110.25.27/ ) . It is free and open to all users and has no login requirement. COMSUC deploys eight typical clustering methods and three consensus clustering approaches. It can be used to identify consensus molecular subtypes of more than 30 cancers. COMSUC data are from three cancer research projects [The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) , the International Cancer Genome Consortium ( ICGC ) , and TARGET] [2 , 4]; users’ private datasets can also be entered. COMSUC provides a user-friendly tool for the integration of discrepant cancer clustering results generated by multiple methods and multi-omics data from multiple platforms. COMSUC is expected to provide powerful support for users’ efforts to decipher cancer consensus molecular subtypes and for the development of a consensus classification system integrating different clustering results. COMSUC is now available at http://comsuc.bioinforai.tech/ ( IP address: http://59.110.25.27/ ) . It is free and open to all users and has no login requirement. COMSUC deploys eight typical clustering methods and three consensus clustering approaches. It can be used to identify consensus molecular subtypes of more than 30 cancers. COMSUC data are from three cancer research projects [The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) , the International Cancer Genome Consortium ( ICGC ) , and TARGET] [2 , 4]; users’ private datasets can also be entered. COMSUC provides a user-friendly tool for the integration of discrepant cancer clustering results generated by multiple methods and multi-omics data from multiple platforms. COMSUC is expected to provide powerful support for users’ efforts to decipher cancer consensus molecular subtypes and for the development of a consensus classification system integrating different clustering
 'Ticks are a diverse group of ectoparasitic blood-feeding organisms that are widely distributed around the world. One such species, the seabird tick (Ixodes uriae), is found in both the northern and southern hemispheres. To determine whether viruses associated with ticks exhibit the same evolutionary patterns as their hosts, the authors collected Ix . uriae specimens from seabirds near a Gentoo penguin colony in Antarctica and from migratory birds on Bonden island in northern Sweden. Through meta-transcriptomic next-generation sequencing, they identified 16 RNA viruses, seven of which were novel. Notably, they detected the same species, Ronne virus, and two closely related species, Bonden virus and Piguzov virus, in both hemispheres, indicating that there have been at least two cross-circumpolar dispersal events. The authors also identified viruses discovered previously in other locations several decades ago, including Gadgets Gully virus, Taggert virus, and Okhotskiy virus. By identifying the same or closely related viruses in geographically disjunct sampling locations, the authors provide evidence for virus dispersal within and between the circumpolar regions. In marked contrast, their phylogenetic analysis revealed no movement of the Ix . uriae tick hosts between the same locations. Combined, these data suggest that migratory birds are responsible for the movement of viruses at both local and global scales.'
 'Meiotic recombination is a vital biological process that ensures accurate chromosome segregation and promotes genetic diversity. Tetrad analysis is a powerful approach to study meiotic recombination and its modulators at fine scales. However, there is a lack of dedicated computational framework for corresponding data analysis. Here we present RecombineX, a generalized computational framework that automates the full workflow of marker identification, gamete genotyping, and recombination profiling based on any organism or genetic background with batch processing capability. RecombineX can also perform analysis based on parental genome assemblies, which facilitates analyzing meiotic recombination landscapes in their native genomic contexts. Additional features such as copy number variation profiling and missing genotype inference further enhance downstream analysis. RecombineX also includes a dedicated module for simulating the genomes and reads of recombinant tetrads, which enables fine-tuned simulation-based hypothesis testing. Our tests based on both simulated and real data further demonstrated its consistent power and accuracy in multiple application scenarios, manifesting RecombineX as an all-around one stop solution for future tetrad analysis.'
 'The APOBEC3 (A3) genes encode cytidine deaminase proteins with potent antiviral and anti-retroelement activity . This locus is characterized by duplication, recombination, and deletion events that gave rise to the seven A3s found in primates . These include three single deaminase domain A3s (A3A, A3C, and A3H) and four double deaminase domain A3s (A3B, A3D, A3F, and A3G). The most potent of the A3 proteins against HIV-1 is A3G. However, it is not clear if double deaminase domain A3s have a generalized functional advantage to restrict HIV-1. In order to test whether superior restriction factors could be created by genetically linking single A3 domains into synthetic double domains, we linked A3C and A3H single domains in novel combinations. We found that A3C/A3H double domains acquired enhanced antiviral activity that is at least as potent, if not better than, A3G. Although these synthetic double domain A3s package into budding virions more efficiently than their respective single domains, this does not fully explain their gain of antiviral potency. The antiviral activity is conferred both by cytidine-deaminase dependent and independent mechanisms, with the latter correlating to an increase in RNA binding affinity. T cell lines expressing this A3C-A3H super restriction factor are able to control replicating HIV-1ΔVif infection to similar levels as A3G. Together, these data show that novel combinations of A3 domains are capable of gaining potent antiviral activity to levels similar to the most potent genome-encoded A3s, via a primarily non-catalytic mechanism.'
'Cancer is a disease characterized by unrelenting tissue growth and clonal evolution. During evolution, genetic and epigenetic aberrations provide the reservoir for dysfunctional cellular phenotypes that maintain a tumour’s replicative advantage, while, over time, fluctuating physiological and ecological properties within the tumour microenvironment drive the need for updated adaptations that sustain immortality. The complex interplay between mutation accumulation and microenvironmental changes leads to a high degree of both cellular and genetic heterogeneity and, by proxy, composite subclonal structure in tumours. The desire to better understand the evolutionary and subclonal dynamics in growing tumour populations has become a major task for cancer genomics—with goals of forecasting tumour progression, developing adaptive evolutionary therapies, and deconvoluting the genetic architecture that drives adaptation. However, a significant hurdle in understanding cancer evolution in vivo are the clinical constraints surrounding serial sequencing, through space or time. For this reason, tumour biopsies are primarily sequenced in bulk from a single site and at a single time point. Although multi-region and single-cell data are becoming increasingly utilized, single time point, bulk sequenced biopsies still represent the major accessible data source for precision genomics guided treatment and for studying cancer genomics and evolution in patients. Given this limitation, a reasonable strategy for inferring evolution in single tumor biopsies has been to utilize theoretical population genetics to capture signatures of selection from the variant allele frequency ( VAF ) distribution. The premise being that fitness-altering mutations will deterministically change in frequency over time, leading to characteristic and quantifiable deviations in the VAF distribution relative to some neutral evolutionary scenario. VAF-based methods have been employed to differentiate between positive selection and neutral evolution, to examine growth patterns, to quantify subclonal fitness and time subclonal emergence, and to build population genetics informed mixture models that account for neutral dynamics, that shape, to some extent, all tumour populations. With that said, existing VAF-based methods used to infer cancer evolution, although mechanistic and useful, have apparent limitations. For example, single statistics are maximally compressive and cannot infer complex information, approximate Bayesian computation methods suffer from the curse of dimensionality and can be prohibitively slow due to a rate-limiting simulation step required for each sample, and mixture models, used to identify subclonal populations, are only implicitly connected to an underlying model of evolution and, until recently, have been built under incorrect assumptions that have led to systematic overestimation in the number of subclonal populations in sequenced tumours. To address these limitations, we contribute a proof-of-principle synthetic supervised deep learning approach, TumE, for quantifying and classifying the evolutionary and subclonal dynamics in bulk sequenced tumour biopsies using purity-corrected variant allele frequency ( VAF ) information from diploid genomic regions. By generating synthetic VAF distributions, as a proxy for evolutionary ground truth, from plausible simulations of tumour evolution, we were able to build inference models that accurately classify and quantify evolutionary ( e.g. positive selection versus neutral evolution ) and subclonal dynamics ( e.g. subclone frequency ) in real patient tumours while capturing uncertainty in our estimates, via a form of approximate Bayesian inference called Monte Carlo dropout. Importantly, our method further highlights the power of utilizing deep learning for inference—namely exploiting stored knowledge via transfer learning. By recycling our models for new evolutionary prediction tasks, we reduce the computational burden associated with the generation of synthetic or simulated data. We validated our synthetic supervised learning approach in millions of synthetic tumours and applied TumE to 88 copy-number and purity corrected whole-genome ( WGS ) and whole-exome ( WES ) sequenced tumour biopsies. ', Keyword: '['cancers and neoplasms', 'genetics', 'research and analysis methods', 'cancer genetics', 'oncology', 'carcinogenesis', 'genomics', 'cancer evolution', 'simulation and modeling', 'surgical and invasive medical procedures', 'medicine and health sciences', 'genomic medicine', 'biology and life sciences', 'neural networks', 'computer and information sciences', 'neuroscience', 'malignant tumors', 'basic cancer research', 'cancer genomics', 'biopsy']'
 'This study investigates the diversity and distribution of African trypanosomes in two active HAT foci in Chad, Mandoul and Maro. The study found that T. b. gambiense was the most prevalent species in both areas, followed by T. vivax and T. congolense. The study also identified an unknown Trypanosoma sp. -129-H in a human with a history of a cured HAT infection and persisting symptoms. In addition, the study found evidence for additional unknown trypanosomes in tsetse flies in Maro. The study highlights the importance of monitoring and control campaigns to reduce the risk of HAT and AAT infections in Chad. The study also emphasizes the need for further research to investigate the infectivity of the unknown trypanosomes regarding their zoonotic potential.'
 'Schistosoma haematobium and S. bovis are two closely related species of parasitic flatworms that cause important public health and veterinary issues. In particular, hybrids between S. haematobium and S. bovis associated with humans and animals respectively are frequently identified in Africa. Recent genomic evidence indicates that some S. haematobium populations show signatures of genomic introgression from S. bovis. Here, we conducted a genomic comparative study and investigated the genomic relationships between S. haematobium, S. bovis, and their hybrids using 19 isolates originating from a wide geographical range over Africa, including samples initially classified as S. haematobium (n = 11), S. bovis (n = 6), and S. haematobium-bovis hybrids (n = 2). Based on a whole genomic sequencing approach, we developed 56,181 SNPs that allowed a clear differentiation of S. bovis isolates from a genomic cluster including all S. haematobium isolates and a natural S. haematobium-bovis hybrid. All the isolates from the S. haematobium cluster except the isolate from Madagascar harbored signatures of genomic introgression from S. bovis. Isolates from Corsica, Mali, and Egypt harbored the S. bovis-like Invadolysin gene, an introgressed tract that has been previously detected in some introgressed S. haematobium populations from Niger. Together, our results highlight the fact that introgression from S. bovis is widespread across S. haematobium and that the observed introgression is unidirectional. Our findings challenge the genetic integrity of the species S. haematobium and call into question whether pure S. haematobium lineages actually persist in Africa.'
 'HIV vaccines have not been successful in clinical trials. Dimeric IgA ( dIgA ) in the form of secretory IgA is the most abundant antibody class in mucosal tissues, making dIgA a prime candidate for potential HIV vaccines. We coupled Positron Emission Tomography ( PET ) imaging and fluorescent microscopy of 64Cu-labeled , photoactivatable-GFP HIV ( PA-GFP-BaL ) and fluorescently labeled dIgA to determine how dIgA antibodies influence virus interaction with mucosal barriers and viral penetration in colorectal tissue. Our results show that HIV virions rapidly disseminate throughout the colon two hours after exposure. The presence of dIgA resulted in an increase in virions and penetration depth in the transverse colon. Moreover, virions were found in the mesenteric lymph nodes two hours after viral exposure, and the presence of dIgA led to an increase in virions in mesenteric lymph nodes. Taken together, these technologies enable in vivo and in situ visualization of antibody-virus interactions and detailed investigations of early events in HIV infection.'
'Iliski' is a software package that allows users to compute Transfer Functions ( TFs ) between two signals. TFs are used to model the relationships between biological processes and can be computed using different methods, including deconvolution and optimization algorithms. Iliski includes different pre-treatment routines and TF computation processes, such as deconvolution, deterministic and non-deterministic optimization algorithms, and deterministic and non-deterministic optimization algorithms. The software can be used on the most common operating systems and can be used within the MATLAB environment or as a standalone application. The authors applied Iliski to data on neurovascular coupling, an ensemble of cellular mechanisms that link neuronal activity to local changes of blood flow, highlighting the software benefits and caveats in the computation and evaluation of TFs. The authors also proposed a workflow that will help users to choose the best computation according to the dataset. Iliski is available under the open-source license CC BY 4.0 on GitHub ( https://github.com/alike-aydin/Iliski ).
 'Zika virus is a mosquito-borne virus that can cause birth defects in babies born to mothers who contract the virus before or during pregnancy . The virus can also cause feeding difficulties in infants . This qualitative evidence synthesis aimed to understand the values and preferences of pregnant women, mothers, families, health care workers, and service providers concerning infant feeding in the presence of feeding difficulties due to Zika virus infection or other conditions that present with similar problems. Six studies were included in the direct evidence review on feeding difficulties due to Zika virus infection, and eight studies were included in the indirect evidence review on feeding difficulties due to other conditions. The studies highlighted that breastfeeding was the preferred option for all mothers in the studies, and the inability to do so affected bonding between parents and child, and generated fear and anxiety relating to feeding choices. Health professionals were often unable to offer appropriate advice, and training was perceived as valuable. There was a strong desire to achieve individual maternal autonomy in infant feeding decisions. The evidence base has limitations, but consistently reported that parents of children with feeding difficulties due to Zika virus infection, or similar, need information, advice, and counselling, and substantial emotional support. Parents perceive that these needs are often neither recognised nor satisfied; optimal feeding and support strategies for this population have not yet been identified. '
 'Two-component, self-assembling nanoparticles are a versatile platform for multivalent presentation of viral antigens. Computational design of protein nanoparticles with differing sizes and geometries enables combination with antigens of choice to test novel multimerization concepts in immunization strategies. Here, we describe detailed antigenic, structural, and functional characterization of computationally designed tetrahedral, octahedral, and icosahedral nanoparticle immunogens displaying trimeric HIV envelope glycoprotein (Env) ectodomains. Env trimers, based on subtype A (BG505) or consensus group M (ConM) sequences and engineered with SOSIP stabilizing mutations, were fused to an underlying trimeric building block of each nanoparticle. Initial screening yielded one icosahedral and two tetrahedral nanoparticle candidates, capable of presenting twenty or four copies of the Env trimer. A number of analyses, including detailed structural characterization by cryo-EM, demonstrated that the nanoparticle immunogens possessed the intended structural and antigenic properties. When the immunogenicity of ConM-SOSIP trimers presented on a two-component tetrahedral nanoparticle or as soluble proteins were compared in rabbits, the two immunogens elicited similar serum antibody binding titers against the trimer component. Neutralizing antibody titers were slightly elevated in the animals given the nanoparticle immunogen and were initially more focused to the trimer apex. Altogether, our findings indicate that tetrahedral nanoparticles can be successfully applied for presentation of HIV Env trimer immunogens; however, the optimal implementation to different immunization strategies remains to be determined.'
'Pseudorabies virus ( PRV ) is a highly contagious virus that causes devastating disease in swine and can also infect humans . PRV has evolved various immune evasion mechanisms that target host antiviral immune responses . Here , we show that PRV tegument protein UL13 inhibits STING-mediated antiviral signaling via regulation of STING stability . Mechanistically , UL13 interacts with the CDN domain of STING and recruits the E3 ligase RING-finger protein 5 ( RNF5 ) to promote K27-/K29-linked ubiquitination and degradation of STING . Consequently , deficiency of RNF5 enhances host antiviral immune responses triggered by PRV infection . In addition , mutant PRV lacking UL13 impaired in antagonism of STING-mediated production of type I IFNs and shows attenuated pathogenicity in mice . Our findings suggest that PRV UL13 functions as an antagonist of IFN signaling via a novel mechanism by targeting STING to persistently evade host antiviral responses .'
 'Arthropod-borne viruses (arboviruses) require replication across a wide range of temperatures to perpetuate. While vertebrate hosts tend to maintain temperatures of approximately 37°C-40°C, arthropods are subject to ambient temperatures which can have a daily fluctuation of > 10°C. Temperatures impact vector competence, extrinsic incubation period, and mosquito survival unimodally, with optimal conditions occurring at some intermediate temperature. In addition, the mean and range of daily temperature fluctuations influence arbovirus perpetuation and vector competence. The impact of temperature on arbovirus genetic diversity during systemic mosquito infection, however, is poorly understood. Therefore, we determined how constant extrinsic incubation temperatures of 25°C, 28°C, 32°C, and 35°C control Zika virus (ZIKV) vector competence and population dynamics within Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus mosquitoes. We also examined fluctuating temperatures which better mimic field conditions in the tropics. We found that vector competence varied in a unimodal manner for constant temperatures peaking between 28°C and 32°C for both Aedes species. Transmission peaked at 10 days post-infection for Aedes aegypti and 14 days for Aedes albopictus. Conversely, fluctuating temperature decreased vector competence. Using RNA-seq to characterize ZIKV population structure, we identified that temperature alters the selective environment in unexpected ways. During mosquito infection, constant temperatures more often elicited positive selection whereas fluctuating temperatures led to strong purifying selection in both Aedes species. These findings demonstrate that temperature has multiple impacts on ZIKV biology, including major effects on the selective environment within mosquitoes.'
2-nonanone is a strong repellent that signals danger to C. elegans, while IAA is an attractive odorant that signals food. In this study, the authors found that the presence of 2-nonanone blocks the attraction of IAA, and that this effect is mediated by the osm-5 and osm-1 genes. The authors also found that the AWB and ASH sensory neurons are involved in the integration process, and that the AVA, AIB, and RIM interneurons also contribute to the integrated response. The authors used a forward genetic screen to identify the genes involved in the integration process, and found that mutations in osm-5 and osm-1 mildly reduced the response to 2-nonanone and disrupted the integration effect. Restoring the function of OSM-5 in either AWB or ASH was sufficient to rescue the integration effect. The authors' findings provide new insights into the neural circuits that regulate olfactory integration and may have implications for understanding how the nervous system processes complex sensory information.
 'Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease caused by the Schistosoma genus of trematodes. It is a major public health problem in many parts of the world, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. The current treatment for schistosomiasis is praziquantel, but it has limitations such as reduced efficacy and the emergence of drug-resistant parasites. Vaccination is considered an effective and sustainable way to control schistosomiasis. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are protein-loaded nano-scaled particles that are extracellularly released by eukaryotes and prokaryotes. Parasite EVs have been shown to modulate the host immune response, making them promising next-generation vaccines. In this study, the authors isolated EVs from cultured S. mansoni eggs and evaluated their protective efficacy against murine schistosomiasis. They found that the EVs were able to stimulate specific antibodies response and reduce the number of adult worms, hepatic and intestinal egg counts, and the size and number of hepatic granulomata. The authors concluded that S. mansoni egg-derived EVs have the potential to be used as a vaccine candidate against murine schistosomiasis. '
 'Mycetoma is a rare disease that affects the subcutaneous tissue and is caused by fungi or bacteria. The disease is more common in males aged 11–40 years and is endemic in the "Mycetoma Belt" that stretches between the latitudes of 15° South and 30° North. The foot is the most affected part of the body. Diagnosis of mycetoma is challenging and tedious, involving many differential diagnoses. Actinomycetoma generally responds well to antibiotics while eumycetoma needs both long-term antifungal medication and/or surgery. Mycetoma has been reported since the 1800s, but the actual global burden of the disease is unknown. There is a paucity of published data from Africa. For this reason, the World Health Organization recently recognized mycetoma as a neglected tropical disease during the 69th World Health Assembly. In Uganda, data on the burden of mycetoma and its associated complications are limited. This study aimed to retrospectively estimate the burden of mycetoma in Uganda by reviewing biopsy reports at the Pathology reference laboratory, Makerere University, and published literature on mycetoma in Uganda. The average incidence was estimated at 0.32/100,000 persons and prevalence of 8.32/100,000 persons per decade. The highest number of cases was recorded from Kampala and Jinja districts. The majority of the cases (68%) were referred from surgical units. The foot was the most affected part of the body (72%). Ten per cent of the cases had bone involvement of which 58% required amputation. Fungi were the most common causative agents (89%), followed by Nocardia species (5%) and Actinomycetes (4%). The index of clinical suspicion of mycetoma was low (45%) with a very large differential diagnosis. Mycetoma is a relatively rare disease in Uganda, mostly caused by fungi, and there is a big gap in data and epidemiological studies. More systematic studies are warranted to define the true burden of mycetoma in Uganda.']
'Malaria is a vector-borne disease caused by Plasmodium parasites. In Malaysia, the most prevalent Plasmodium species in macaques is P. inui, while the least prevalent is P. fieldi. The prevalence of simian malaria is higher in East Malaysia compared to Peninsular Malaysia. The mono, dual, and triple infection types are the most common among macaques. The non-human primates like macaques are the reservoir of simian plasmodium in Malaysia. Hence, the study of host epidemiology is an important insight to public health management as there is a high occurrence of simian malaria in Malaysia. The right measurement can be taken as well to prevent the transmission of simian malaria from macaques to humans.'
 'Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) is a human tumor virus that is associated with several malignancies, including B-cell lymphomas and epithelial tumors. EBNA1 is a key antigen expressed in all EBV-associated tumors during latency and is required for maintenance of the EBV episome DNA and the regulation of viral gene transcription. In this study, the authors report that EBNA1 contains two SUMO-interacting motifs ( SIM2 and SIM3 ) and that mutation of SIM2, but not SIM3, disrupts the EBNA1 dimerization. The authors also found that SIM3 contributes to the polySUMO2 modification of EBNA1 at lysine 477 in vitro. Proteomic and immunoprecipitation analyses further revealed that the SIM3 motif is required for the EBNA1-mediated inhibitory effects on SUMO2-modified STUB1, SUMO2-mediated degradation of USP7, and SUMO1-modified KAP1. Deletion of the EBNASIM motif leads to functional loss of both EBNA1-mediated viral episome maintenance and lytic gene silencing. Importantly, hypoxic stress induces the SUMO2 modification of EBNA1, and in turn the dissociation of EBNA1 with STUB1, KAP1 and USP7 to increase the SUMO1 modification of both STUB1 and KAP1 for reactivation of lytic replication. The EBNA1SIM motif plays an essential role in EBV latency and is a potential therapeutic target against EBV-associated cancers.'
 'Wheat is a staple crop for global food security. Improving our understanding of the genes regulating grain yield can contribute to the development of more productive wheat varieties. In this study, we have identified the wheat gene WHEAT ORTHOLOG OF APO1 ( WAPO1 ) as the causal gene for a significant QTL affecting spikelet number per spike ( SNS ) on chromosome arm 7AL. We have generated loss-of-function mutants and transgenic plants to characterize the function of WAPO1. Our results show that WAPO1 affects SNS by regulating the timing of terminal spikelet formation. We have also identified three widespread haplotypes in the QTL region, each associated with particular WAPO1 alleles. The WAPO-A1 allele in the H1 haplotype ( 115-bp deletion in the promoter ) is expressed at significantly lower levels in the developing spikes than the alleles in the H2 and H3 haplotypes, resulting in reduced SNS. Field experiments also showed that the H2 haplotype is associated with the strongest effects in increasing SNS and grain number per spikelet ( GNS ) ( H2>H3>H1 ). The H2 haplotype is already present in most modern common wheat varieties but is rare in durum wheat, where it might be particularly useful to improve grain yield. Our results provide new insights into the genetic regulation of grain yield in wheat and highlight the potential of WAPO1 for improving grain yield in both common and durum wheat.'
 'Scrub typhus is a vector-borne zoonosis caused by bacteria of the genus Orientia, which causes significant morbidity and mortality. The disease was previously thought to be restricted to a certain region, known as the tsutsugamushi triangle, in Asia-Pacific, but recent cases from the Arabian Peninsula and southern Chile have called this paradigm into question. In the Asia-Australia-Pacific region, the orientia infection is transmitted by larvae of trombiculid mites known as chiggers, which are also the reservoir of the orientiae through transovarial and transstadial transmission. Small vertebrates, usually rodents, serve as main hosts of the chiggers and are a critical part of the epidemiology of scrub typhus in the Asia-Australia-Pacific region. In Chile, 18 species of trombiculid mites have been reported so far, mostly from reptiles. Still, none of them belong to the genus Leptotrombidium or other genera associated with orientia, and up to now, no studies regarding the rodent-associated chigger fauna have been performed in scrub typhus endemic regions in southern Chile. The aim of the present work was to study the presence, prevalence, and distribution of chiggers and analyze their infestation pattern on different rodent species captured in sites, which were identified in previous studies as probable hot spots of scrub typhus on Chiloé Island. To study them as possible vectors of scrub typhus in Chile, chigger mite samples were molecularly examined for the presence of Orientia DNA. The study firstly reports the presence of different rodent-associated chigger mites positive for Orientia sp., in a region endemic for scrub typhus in southern Chile. Herpetacarus and two other genera of mites were found with high infestation rates of rodents in sites previously identified as probable exposure of scrub typhus cases. A substantial percentage of mite pools were positive for Orientia DNA, suggesting that chigger mites serve as vectors and reservoirs of this emerging zoonosis in South America.'
 'During the 2015–2017 Zika epidemic , dengue and chikungunya were also in circulation . Clinical presentation of these diseases can vary from person to person in terms of symptoms and severity , making it difficult to differentially diagnose them . Given the importance of surveillance data for informing epidemiological analyses , our aim was to quantify the potential extent of misdiagnosis during this epidemic . Using basic principles of probability and empirical estimates of diagnostic sensitivity and specificity , we generated revised estimates of reported cases of Zika that accounted for the accuracy of diagnoses made on the basis of clinical presentation with or without laboratory confirmation . Applying this method to weekly reported case data from 43 countries throughout Latin America and the Caribbean , we estimated that 944 , 700 ( 95% CrI: 884 , 000–996 , 400 ) Zika cases occurred when assuming all confirmed cases were diagnosed using molecular methods versus 608 , 400 ( 95% CrI: 442 , 000–821 , 800 ) Zika cases that occurred when assuming all confirmed cases were diagnosed using serological methods . Our results imply that misdiagnosis was more common in countries with proportionally higher reported cases of dengue and chikungunya , such as Brazil . Given that Zika , dengue , and chikungunya appear likely to co-circulate in the Americas and elsewhere for years to come , our methodology has the potential to enhance the interpretation of passive surveillance data for these diseases going forward . Likewise , our methodology could also be used to help resolve transmission dynamics of other co-circulating diseases with similarities in symptomatology and potential for misdiagnosis .'
 'HBV is a DNA virus that replicates its genome via reverse transcription of a pregenomic ( pg ) RNA intermediate in hepatocytes . HBV RNA can be detected in virus-like particles in chronic hepatitis B ( CHB ) patient serum and has been utilized as a biomarker for intrahepatic cccDNA activity in treated patients . However, the biogenesis and molecular characteristics of serum HBV RNA remain to be fully defined. In this study, we found that the encapsidated serum HBV RNA predominately consists of pgRNA, which are detergent- and ribonuclease-resistant. Through blocking HBV DNA replication without affecting pgRNA encapsidation by using the priming-defective HBV mutant Y63D or 3TC treatment, we demonstrated that the cell culture supernatant contains a large amount of pgRNA-containing nonenveloped capsids and a minor population of pgRNA-containing virions. The formation of pgRNA-virion requires both capsid assembly and viral envelope proteins, which can be inhibited by capsid assembly modulators and an envelope-knockout mutant, respectively. Furthermore, the pgRNA-virion utilizes the multivesicular body pathway for egress, in a similar way as DNA-virion morphogenesis. Northern blotting, RT-PCR, and 3’ RACE assays revealed that serum/supernatant HBV pgRNA are mainly spliced and devoid of the 3’-terminal sequences. Furthermore, pgRNA-virion collected from cells treated with a reversible HBV priming inhibitor L-FMAU was unable to establish infection in HepG2-NTCP cells. In summary, serum HBV RNA is secreted in noninfectious virion-like particle as spliced and poly ( A ) -free pgRNA. Our study will shed light on the molecular biology of serum HBV RNA in HBV life cycle, and aid the development of serum HBV RNA as a novel biomarker for CHB diagnosis and treatment prognosis. '
 'Tuberculosis (TB) is a major public health concern, exacerbated by the emergence of drug-resistant TB. To combat the host’s dynamic environment, Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) encodes multiple DNA repair enzymes that play a critical role in maintaining genomic integrity. Mtb possesses a GC-rich genome, rendering it highly susceptible to cytosine deaminations, resulting in the occurrence of uracils in the DNA. UDGs encoded by ung and udgB initiate the repair; hence we investigated the biological impact of deleting UDGs in the adaptation of pathogen. We generated gene replacement mutants of uracil DNA glycosylases, individually (RvΔung, RvΔudgB) or together (RvΔdKO). The double KO mutant, RvΔdKO exhibited remarkably higher spontaneous mutation rate, in the presence of antibiotics. Interestingly, RvΔdKO showed higher survival rates in guinea pigs and accumulated large number of SNPs as revealed by whole-genome sequence analysis. Competition assays revealed the superior fitness of RvΔdKO over Rv, both in ex vivo and in vivo conditions. We propose that compromised DNA repair results in the accumulation of mutations, and a subset of these drives adaptation in the host. Importantly, this property allowed us to utilize RvΔdKO for the facile identification of drug targets. '
'The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is a group of cells in the brain that controls the body's internal clock. The SCN is made up of many cells that are connected to each other in a network. The cells in the SCN communicate with each other using electrical signals called action potentials (APs). However, little is known about the structure of the network of connections between the cells in the SCN. In this study, the authors used mathematical models to explore different possible network structures for the SCN. They looked at how well each network structure could explain the behavior of the SCN in different situations. The authors found that some network structures were better at explaining the behavior of the SCN than others. They also found that the cells in the SCN have different properties depending on their location within the network. The authors believe that their findings will help researchers better understand how the SCN works and how it is connected to other parts of the brain.'
The study proposes a new model, the lexical categorization model ( LCM ), to explain the functional role of the left-ventral occipito-temporal cortex ( lvOT ) during reading. The LCM assumes that lvOT optimizes linguistic processing by allowing fast meaning access when words are familiar and filtering out orthographic strings without meaning. The LCM successfully simulates benchmark results from functional brain imaging described in the literature. In a second evaluation, the authors empirically demonstrate that quantitative LCM simulations predict lvOT activation better than alternative models across three functional magnetic resonance imaging studies. The authors found that word-likeness, assumed as input into a lexical categorization process, is represented posteriorly to lvOT, whereas a dichotomous word/non-word output of the LCM could be localized to the downstream frontal brain regions. Finally, training the process of lexical categorization resulted in more efficient reading. In sum, the authors propose that word recognition in the ventral visual stream involves word-likeness extraction followed by lexical categorization before one can access word meaning.
 'The circadian clock is a biological system that regulates the timing of various physiological processes in organisms. Shift work, which involves working during the night and sleeping during the day, can disrupt the circadian clock and lead to health problems. In this study, researchers used mathematical modeling to study the effects of shift work on the circadian clock and the immune system in rats. They found that shift work can lead to a reversal of the times of lowest and highest sensitivity to inflammation, with males and females exhibiting an exaggerated response to inflammation at certain times of the day. The researchers also identified key clock genes that are responsible for the sex-specific responses to shift work. These findings provide insights into the mechanisms underlying the effects of shift work on the circadian clock and the immune system, and may help to develop strategies to mitigate the negative effects of shift work on human health.'
 'This study aimed to estimate the economic burden of dengue fever ( DENV ) infection in Saudi Arabia from 2013 to 2017. The study used a statistically validated predictive model to estimate direct costs due to care-related expenditures and indirect costs due to productivity loss. The total estimated cost for the five years was US$551 million for a total of 15,369 patients, resulting in an average cost of US$11,947.6 per patient. Depending on the year, productivity years loss costs accounted for 63.3% to 83.8% of the estimated total costs. The study highlights the substantial local economic burden of dengue fever and the urgent need for an effective national prevention strategy to perform considerable cost-savings besides reducing morbidity.'
 'Lipid droplets (LDs) are a common feature of many cell types and are involved in a variety of cellular processes, including energy storage, membrane growth, and protein trafficking. However, recent studies have shown that LDs can also occur in the nucleus of some cells, including human patients with fatty liver disease. The function of nuclear LDs (nLDs) is not well understood, but they may play a role in nuclear organization or protein trafficking. In this study, the authors used a forward genetic screen to identify mutants with abnormal nLDs in the intestine and gonad of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. They found that mutations in several genes, including seipin, nemp1, and copa-1, caused an increase in the number and size of nLDs in the intestine, but not in the gonad. The authors then used a variety of techniques, including electron microscopy, live-cell imaging, and molecular biology, to investigate the effects of these mutations on nuclear organization and function. They found that mutations in seipin and nemp1 caused the formation of large nuclear cysts and the removal of aberrant nucleoplasm in the intestine, but not in the gonad. They also found that mutations in copa-1 caused the formation of bundled microfilaments and a type I nucleoplasmic reticulum in the intestine, but not in the gonad. The authors conclude that the nLD-associated defects in intestinal nuclei are likely due to differences in nuclear organization between the intestine and gonad. Their findings suggest that nLDs may play a role in nuclear organization and function, but further studies are needed to fully understand their function.'
 'The Gram-positive bacterium Streptococcus pneumoniae ( pneumococcus ) is a leading cause of bacterial meningitis and many survivors develop neurological sequelae after the acute infection has resolved . Here , we studied mechanisms for pneumococcal interactions with neurons . Using human primary neurons , pull-down experiments and mass spectrometry , we show that pneumococci interact with the cytoskeleton protein β-actin through the pilus-1 adhesin RrgA and the cytotoxin pneumolysin ( Ply ) , thereby promoting adhesion and invasion of neurons , and neuronal death . Using our bacteremia-derived meningitis mouse model , we observe that RrgA- and Ply-expressing pneumococci co-localize with neuronal β-actin . Using purified proteins , we show that Ply , through its cholesterol-binding domain 4 , interacts with the neuronal plasma membrane , thereby increasing the exposure on the outer surface of β-actin filaments , leading to more β-actin binding sites available for RrgA binding , and thus enhanced pneumococcal interactions with neurons . Pneumococcal infection promotes neuronal death possibly due to increased intracellular Ca2+ levels depending on presence of Ply , as well as on actin cytoskeleton disassembly . STED super-resolution microscopy showed disruption of β-actin filaments in neurons infected with pneumococci expressing RrgA and Ply . Finally , neuronal death caused by pneumococcal infection could be inhibited using antibodies against β-actin . The generated data potentially helps explaining mechanisms for why pneumococci frequently cause neurological sequelae .'
 'The fighting fish Betta splendens is a well-known model for studying aggression and social behavior. In this study, we analyzed the behavioral and brain-transcriptomic changes during a fight between two opponents. We found that surface-breathing and biting/striking occurred only during intervals between mouth-locking. Eventually, the behaviors of the two opponents became synchronized, with each pair showing a unique behavioral pattern. At the physiological level, we examined the expression patterns of 23,306 brain transcripts using RNA-sequencing data from brains of fighting pairs after a 20-min (D20) and a 60-min (D60) fight. The two opponents in each D60 fighting pair showed a strong gene expression correlation, whereas those in D20 fighting pairs showed a weak correlation. Moreover, each fighting pair in the D60 group showed pair-specific gene expression patterns in a grade of membership analysis (GoM) and were grouped as a pair in the heatmap clustering. The observed pair-specific individualization in brain-transcriptomic synchronization (PIBS) suggested that this synchronization provides a physiological basis for the behavioral synchronization. An analysis using the synchronized genes in fighting pairs of the D60 group found genes enriched for ion transport, synaptic function, and learning and memory. Brain-transcriptomic synchronization could be a general phenomenon and may provide a new cornerstone with which to investigate coordinating and sustaining social interactions between two interacting partners of vertebrates.'
 'Mosquito-borne viruses are a major public health concern, causing severe diseases such as dengue fever and West Nile virus. Recently, several unassigned viruses were identified as totivirus-like viruses, with features similar to those of the Totiviridae family. These viruses are thought to be capable of extracellular transmission, but the biochemistry and structural basis of this process are poorly understood. Here, we identified a new strain of OmRV, a totivirus-like virus, and determined its high-resolution structures using single-particle cryo-electron microscopy. The structures revealed an unexpected protrusion at the five-fold vertex of the capsid, which may be associated with the extracellular transmission of OmRV. Our findings provide new insights into the structural basis of extracellular transmission of totivirus-like viruses.
'Ric-8B is a highly conserved protein that interacts with Gαs class subunits from heterotrimeric G proteins. In vitro, Ric-8B can work as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor ( GEF ) for both Gαs and Gαolf. In vivo, Ric-8B is predominantly expressed in the same tissues where Gαolf is expressed, indicating that these two proteins are functional partners in vivo. Previous studies have shown that complete knockout of the Ric-8B gene results in mice that are not viable and that die early during embryogenesis. Here we show that a gene trapped allele of Ric-8B that shows reduced levels of Ric-8B expression leads to embryos that are smaller than their wild type littermates, fail to close the neural tube in the cephalic region and die during mid-embryogenesis. Comparative transcriptome analysis revealed that signaling pathways involving GPCRs and G proteins are dysregulated in the Ric-8B mutant embryos. Interestingly, this analysis also revealed an unexpected impairment of the mTOR signaling pathway. Phosphorylation of Akt at Ser473 is downregulated in the Ric-8B mutant embryos, indicating a decreased activity of mTORC2. Knockdown of the endogenous Ric-8B gene in cultured cell lines leads to reduced phosphorylation levels of Akt ( Ser473 ), further supporting the involvement of Ric-8B in mTORC2 activity. Our results reveal a crucial role for Ric-8B in development and provide novel insights into the signals that regulate mTORC2.'
 'Dengue fever is a common vector-borne disease that poses a challenge to predict due to large variations in epidemic size across seasons driven by a number of factors including population susceptibility, mosquito density, meteorological conditions, geographical factors, and human mobility. An ensemble forecast system for dengue fever is proposed that addresses the difficulty of predicting outbreaks with drastically different scales. The ensemble forecast system based on a susceptible-infected-recovered (SIR) type of compartmental model coupled with a data assimilation method called the ensemble adjusted Kalman filter (EAKF) is constructed to generate real-time forecasts of dengue fever spread dynamics. To account for the dramatic variations of outbreak size in different seasons, the effective population size parameter that is sequentially updated to adjust the predicted outbreak scale is introduced into the model. Before optimizing the transmission model, we update the effective population size using the most recent observations and historical records so that the predicted outbreak size is dynamically adjusted. In the retrospective forecast of dengue outbreaks in Guangzhou, China during the 2011–2017 seasons, the proposed forecast model generates accurate projections of peak timing, peak intensity, and total incidence, outperforming a generalized additive model approach. The ensemble forecast system can be operated in real-time and inform control planning to reduce the burden of dengue fever. '
'Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease that can cause nerve damage and skin lesions. The disease can lead to stigma and discrimination, which can negatively impact the psychosocial wellbeing of persons affected and their family members. Resilience is a process that incorporates many of the core skills and abilities that may enable people to address stigma and discrimination. The current study aimed to develop and pilot an intervention to strengthen individual and family resilience against leprosy-related discrimination. The study used a quasi-experimental, before-after study design with a mixed methods approach. The 10-week family-based intervention was designed to strengthen the resilience of individuals and families by enhancing their protective abilities and capacity to overcome adversity. The study was conducted in two sites, urban areas in Telangana state and rural areas in Odisha state, India. Persons affected and their family members were included using purposive sampling. Two questionnaires were used pre- and post-intervention: the Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale and the WHOQOL-BREF. In addition, semi-structured interviews were conducted post-intervention. Data were collected at baseline, a few weeks after completion of the intervention, and in the Odisha cohort again at six months after completion. Paired t-tests measured differences pre- and post-intervention. Qualitative data were thematically analysed. Eighty participants across 20 families were included in the study (23 persons affected and 57 family members). The study found that the 10-week family-based intervention to strengthen resilience among persons affected by leprosy and their family members was feasible and has the potential to improve resilience and quality of life. A large-scale efficacy trial is necessary to determine the effectiveness and long-term sustainability of the intervention.'
 'In budding yeast , the conserved protein shugoshin ( Sgo1 ) contributes to biorientation by recruiting the protein phosphatase PP2A-Rts1 and the condensin complex to centromeres . Using peptide prints , we identified a Serine-Rich Motif ( SRM ) of Sgo1 that mediates the interaction with condensin and is essential for centromeric condensin recruitment and the establishment of biorientation . We show that the interaction is regulated via phosphorylation within the SRM and we determined the phospho-sites using mass spectrometry . Analysis of the phosphomimic and phosphoresistant mutants revealed that SRM phosphorylation disrupts the shugoshin–condensin interaction . We present evidence that Mps1 , a central kinase in the spindle assembly checkpoint , directly phosphorylates Sgo1 within the SRM to regulate the interaction with condensin and thereby condensin localization to centromeres . Our findings identify novel mechanisms that control shugoshin activity at the centromere in budding yeast .'
 'Computational prediction tools are widely used in immunology to identify T cell epitopes, which are important in many applications such as vaccine design, cancer neoantigen identification, and development of diagnostics. However, the performance of these tools has not been comprehensively evaluated. In this study, we used a recently published dataset that systematically defined T cell epitopes recognized in vaccinia virus (VACV) infected C57BL/6 mice, considering both peptides predicted to bind MHC or experimentally eluted from infected cells. We evaluated the performance of all currently publicly available computational T cell epitope prediction tools to identify these major epitopes from all peptides encoded in the VACV proteome. We found that all methods were able to improve epitope identification above random, with the best performance achieved by neural network-based predictions trained on both MHC binding and MHC ligand elution data. Impressively, these methods were able to capture more than half of the major epitopes in the top N = 277 predictions within the N = 767, 788 predictions made for distinct peptides of relevant lengths that can theoretically be encoded in the VACV proteome. These performance metrics provide guidance for immunologists as to which prediction methods to use and what success rates are possible for epitope predictions when considering a highly controlled system of administered immunizations to inbred mice. In addition, this benchmark was implemented in an open and easy to reproduce format, providing developers with a framework for future comparisons against new tools.'
 'This study aimed to investigate whether obesity-associated DNA methylation in blood is reflected in spermatozoa from obese males. The study used the Infinium MethylationEPIC array to profile genome-wide DNA methylation in matched samples of blood and sperm from lean and obese healthy males of proven fertility. The study found that DNA methylation signatures of human blood and spermatozoa are highly discordant, and obesity-associated DNA methylation in blood was not generally reflected in spermatozoa. The study also identified one cross-tissue obesity-specific hypermethylated site in sperm, which warrants replication and further investigation. When compared to a wide range of human somatic tissue samples, spermatozoa displayed differential DNA methylation across pathways enriched in transcriptional regulation. Overall, the study suggests that spermatozoal DNA methylation is an unlikely mediator of intergenerational effects of metabolic traits. The study also provides a unique insight into how spermatozoal DNA methylation compares to DNA methylation in a wide range of human somatic tissues.'
 'Reovirus is a neurotropic virus that causes lethal encephalitis in newborn animals. To understand how reovirus enters and moves within neurons, we used primary neuron cultures and microfluidic devices. We found that reovirus enters neurons through macropinocytosis, a process that is different from clathrin-mediated endocytosis used by reovirus to enter non-neuronal cells. We also found that reovirus moves retrograde but not anterograde in axons, and that this movement is mediated by dynein. Finally, we discovered that reovirus moves in non-acidified vesicles that acidify after reaching the soma, where the virus disassembles and enters the cytoplasm. These findings provide insights into the mechanisms of reovirus neuronal entry and transport, and may help in the development of interventions that block early steps in infection.'
 'A new study has identified a previously unidentified conserved epitope on the surface of the malaria parasite that could be targeted by prophylactic antibodies and exploited in structure-based vaccine design. The study used monoclonal antibodies from volunteers immunized with the RTS, S/AS01 vaccine to identify two distinct sites on opposite faces of the C-terminal domain of the parasite’s sporozoite surface protein (c-ctCSP). One site contains a polymorphic region (α-ctCSP) that has been previously characterized, while the second is a previously undescribed site on the conserved β-sheet face of c-ctCSP (β-ctCSP). Antibodies to the β-ctCSP site exhibited broad reactivity with a diverse panel of c-ctCSP peptides derived from field isolates of Plasmodium falciparum, while antibodies to the α-ctCSP site showed very limited cross reactivity. Importantly, an antibody to the β-site demonstrated inhibition activity against malaria infection in a murine model. This study highlights the need for further research into the role of antibodies to the β-ctCSP site in protection against malaria and the potential for structure-based vaccine design to target this site.'
'Toxoplasma gondii is a parasite that infects a wide range of warm-blooded animals and is highly prevalent in humans. This parasite imposes a significant risk to patients with a compromised immune system and to pregnant women. Toxoplasma gondii strains are grouped into three genetically distinct lineages, known as types I, II, and III, which vary significantly in virulence in mice. In this study, the authors profiled lysine malonylation in Toxoplasma gondii using quantitative liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and immuno-affinity purification. This analysis was performed on three Toxoplasma gondii strains with distinctive pathogenicity in mice, including RH strain (type I), PRU strain (type II), and VEG strain (type III). The authors found that there were 111 differentially malonylated proteins and 152 sites upregulated, and 17 proteins and 17 sites downregulated in RH strain versus PRU strain; 50 proteins and 59 sites upregulated, 50 proteins and 53 sites downregulated in RH strain versus VEG strain; and 72 proteins and 90 sites upregulated, and 7 proteins and 8 sites downregulated in VEG strain versus PRU strain. Differentially malonylated proteins were involved in key processes, such as those mediating the regulation of protein metabolism, stress response, glycolysis, and actin cytoskeleton. These results reveal an association between lysine malonylation and intra-species virulence differences in Toxoplasma gondii and offer a new resource for elucidating the contribution of lysine malonylation to energy metabolism and virulence in Toxoplasma gondii.'
 'Nematodes are a major public health concern, with over 1.5 billion people infected globally. There is a need for new, more effective anthelmintic drugs. Nematode nAChRs are targets of cholinomimetic anthelmintics, while glutamate-gated chloride channels in the pharynx of the nematode are affected by avermectins. Here, we describe a novel nicotinic acetylcholine receptor on the nematode pharynx that is a potential new drug target. This homomeric receptor is comprised of five non-Î± EAT-2 subunits and is not sensitive to existing cholinomimetic anthelmintics. We found that EAT-18, a novel auxiliary subunit protein, is essential for functional expression of the receptor. EAT-18 directly interacts with the mature receptor, and different homologs alter the pharmacological properties. Thus, we have described not only a novel potential drug target but also a new type of obligate auxiliary protein for nAChRs. This work highlights the importance of studying nematode nAChRs as potential drug targets for the treatment of parasitic nematode infections.'
 'HIV-1 is a lentivirus that infects CD4 T lymphocytes ( CD4TL ) through binding the chemokine receptors CCR5 or CXCR4 . CXCR4-using viruses are considered more pathogenic , linked to accelerated depletion of CD4TL and progression to AIDS . However , counterexamples to this paradigm are common , suggesting heterogeneity in the virulence of CXCR4-using viruses . In this study , the authors investigated the role of the CXCR4 chemokine CXCL12 as a driving force behind virus virulence . They found that Envs resistant ( RES ) to CXCL12 are frequent in patients experiencing low CD4TL levels , most often late in infection , only rarely at the time of primary infection . RES Envs adopt a more closed conformation with distinct antigenicity , compared to CXCL12-sensitive ( SENS ) Envs . At the level of the host cell , their results suggest that resistance is not due to improved fusion or binding to CD4 , but owes to viruses using particular CXCR4 molecules weakly accessible to CXCL12 . They finally asked whether the low CD4TL levels in patients are related to increased pathogenicity of RES viruses . RES viruses seem more likely to deregulate CD4TL homeostasis . This work improves our understanding of the pathophysiology and the transmission of HIV-1 and suggests that RES viruses’ receptors could represent new therapeutic targets to help prevent CD4TL depletion in HIV+ patients on cART .'
 'Zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis ( ZCL ) is a parasitic disease caused by Leishmania spp. and transmitted by female sand flies. It is endemic in Palestine and transmitted by Phlebotomus sand flies that inhabit dens of hyraxes, the reservoir animal. Control measures have been implemented since 1996 but cases still occur. We estimated the effect of insecticide thermal fogging inside hyrax dens on sand fly density and leishmania infection. We conducted a 12-week controlled interrupted time series study in two control and one intervention sites containing three hyrax dens each. We implemented Permethrin thermal fogging in the intervention site at week 6. We measured weekly and 36hrs post-intervention sand fly abundance inside dens using CDC light traps. We performed Next-Generation Sequencing to identify sand fly Leishmania spp. infection. We calculated the abundance reduction ( AR ) using Mulla’s formula and negative binomial regression. We report P . arabicus for the first time in Palestine. After fogging, Phlebotomus spp. AR was 93% at 36hrs, 18% and 38% at two and five weeks respectively and 41% during the complete post-intervention period. In the regression models, Phlebotomus spp. density in the intervention site decreased by 74% ( IRR: 0 . 26 , 95%CI: 0 . 11–0 . 57 ) at two weeks, 34% ( IRR: 0 . 66 , 95%CI: 0 . 48–0 . 90 ) at five weeks and 74% ( IRR: 0 . 26 , 95%CI: 0 . 12–0 . 59 ) during the complete period. Leishmania infection prevalence in the intervention site was 14% pre-intervention and 3 . 9% post-intervention. Fogging hyrax dens reduced sand fly abundance and leishmania infection during the 5-week post-intervention period and especially the first two weeks suggesting it could be an effective source-reduction measure for ZCL vectors. Future randomized controlled trials are needed to confirm the effectiveness of fogging hyrax dens on decreasing ZCL incidence. '
 'Foot-and-mouth disease virus ( FMDV ) is a highly contagious virus that affects cloven-hooved animals such as cattle, pigs, and sheep. The 5′ untranslated region ( 5′ UTR ) of the FMDV genome is longer than other picornaviruses and contains multiple putative pseudoknots ( PKs ) linked in tandem. The role of the PKs in the FMDV life cycle is not fully understood. In this study, the authors used bioinformatics, sub-genomic replicons, and recombinant viruses to investigate the structural conservation and importance of the PKs in the FMDV lifecycle. Their results show that despite the conservation of two or more PKs across all FMDVs, a replicon lacking PKs was replication competent, albeit at reduced levels. Furthermore, in competition experiments, GFP FMDV replicons with less than two ( 0 or 1 ) PK structures were outcompeted by a mCherry FMDV wt replicon that had 4 PKs, whereas GFP replicons with 2 or 4 PKs were not. This apparent replicative advantage offered by the additional PKs correlates with the maintenance of at least two PKs in the genomes of FMDV field isolates. Despite a replicon lacking any PKs retaining the ability to replicate, viruses completely lacking PK were not viable and at least one PK was essential for recovery of infectious virus, suggesting a role for the PKs in virion assembly. Thus, the study points to roles for the PKs in both vRNA replication and virion assembly, thereby improving understanding of the molecular biology of FMDV replication and the wider roles of PK in RNA functions.'
 'Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease that affects millions of people worldwide, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. The current treatment for schistosomiasis is Praziquantel (PZQ), which is available in tablet form. However, the tablets are large and bitter-tasting, making it difficult for young children to take them. In this study, two new orally disintegrating tablet (ODT) formulations of PZQ were assessed for their palatability in children aged 6-11 years old. The study found that both formulations were more palatable than the current tablet formulation, with higher scores for the Levo-Praziquantel (L-PZQ) ODT compared to the Racemate Praziquantel (Rac-PZQ) ODT. The study also found that there were gender and age effects on the assessment of palatability. The results of this study suggest that the new ODT formulations of PZQ could improve treatment uptake and compliance in young children, leading to better health outcomes.'
 'Herpesviruses are a leading cause of human viral disease, second only to influenza and cold viruses. The herpesviridae family includes nine human pathogens and many animal pathogens. Among these, HSV-1 and HSV-2 infections frequently reactivate to result in recurrent acute oral and genital lesions, as well as encephalitis. Others, such as VZV, can reactivate decades after the initial infection and may result in painful and debilitating recurrences of shingles. Infections with EBV and KSHV are associated with oncogenic transformation. One of the most clinically challenging herpes infections is caused by human cytomegalovirus (CMV), a leading cause of birth defects and transplant failures. There are no effective drugs for CMV without significant toxicities, and resistance to existing anti-CMV drugs is widespread. Herpesvirus infections are lifelong, with latency periods between recurrent reactivations, making treatment difficult. Currently approved herpetic antiviral agents target and disrupt multiple aspects of the viral life cycle, except for DNA release into the cell nucleus. The novel mechanism of action (MOA) discovered in this work targets the pressurized genome state in a viral capsid, “turns off” capsid pressure, and blocks viral genome ejection into a cell nucleus, preventing viral replication. This work serves as a proof-of-concept to demonstrate the feasibility of a new antiviral target—suppressing pressure-driven viral genome ejection—that is likely impervious to developing drug resistance. This pivotal finding presents a platform for discovery of a new class of broad-spectrum treatments for herpesviruses and other viral infections with genome-pressure-dependent replication. A biophysical approach to antiviral treatment such as this is also a vital strategy to prevent the spread of emerging viruses where vaccine development is challenged by high mutation rates or other evasion mechanisms.'
 'The study aimed to evaluate the impact of nine rounds of Mass Drug Administration ( MDA ) using molecular xenomonitoring ( MX ) in four human inhabited Nancowry Islands in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, India. The study used four different mosquito sampling devices to compare and identify the most productive one for collecting the vector species Aedes niveus. The molecular assay developed for Culex quinquefasciatus—Wuchereria bancrofti combination was used to assess the vector infection. The study found that only 393 female mosquitoes including 44 Ae. niveus ( 11.2% ) were collected from 459 trap collections using three trapping devices. From 151 man landing collections ( MLCs ), 2170 Ae. niveus female mosquitoes were collected. The average prevalence of W . bancrofti DNA was 0.43% . The study concluded that MX could be used to evaluate interventions in this area after further standardization of the protocol. The vector-parasite molecular xenomonitoring ( MX ) could be adopted for DspWB . The vector-parasite MX , can be used to evaluate interventions in this area after further standardization of the protocol .'
 'CREB-binding protein ( CBP ) is a transcriptional co-activator that regulates a wide range of cellular functions. However, the cell-intrinsic inhibitors of CBP are poorly defined. In this study, the authors found that cellular USP12 interacts with the HAT domain of CBP and inhibits CBP’s acetyltransferase activity. Interestingly, USP12 positively regulates interferon ( IFN ) antiviral signaling independently of its deubiquitinase activity. Furthermore, the authors found that in IFN signaling USP12 translocates from the cytoplasm to the nucleus. The decrease in cytoplasmic USP12 facilitates CBP-induced acetylation and activation of IFN signaling proteins in the cytoplasm. Moreover, USP12 accumulation in the nucleus blocks CBP-induced acetylation of phosphorylated STAT1 ( p-STAT1 ) and therefore inhibits the dephosphorylation effects of TCPTP on p-STAT1, which finally maintains nuclear p-STAT1 levels and IFN antiviral efficacy. These findings extend our understanding of the regulation of the strength of IFN antiviral signaling and may provide potential strategies for IFN-based antiviral therapy.'
 'In 2014, a team of researchers conducted a study in Haiti to investigate the cause of acute febrile illness in children. During the study, they identified two orthobunyaviruses, Melao virus (MELV) and Oropouche virus (OROV), in plasma specimens from children with acute febrile illness who presented during outbreaks caused by alpha- and flaviviruses. The researchers isolated MELV in cell culture from the plasma of five case patients and detected OROV RNA in the plasma of an additional child using an unbiased sequencing approach. Abdominal pain was reported by four case patients with MELV infections, with lymphadenopathy noted in two cases. The researchers concluded that their findings document the occurrence of these orthobunyaviruses within the Caribbean region and highlight the critical importance of surveillance with viral genome sequence analyses to identify outbreaks caused by these and other emerging viruses. '
'The COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant global disruption and has led to the development of several vaccines. One promising approach is the use of DNA vaccines, which have been shown to be safe and effective in previous studies. In this study, researchers developed a DNA vaccine containing the spike gene of SARS-CoV-2 for delivery via electroporation. The vaccine was found to induce neutralizing antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 and a Th1-biased immune response in hamsters. The vaccine also provided protective immunity against SARS-CoV-2 challenge in vivo. These findings suggest that DNA vaccines delivered via electroporation could be a promising approach for protecting against COVID-19.'
 'Lymphatic filariasis (LF) is a neglected tropical disease that causes permanent disability through chronic manifestations of lymphedema, elephantiasis, and hydrocele. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that morbidity management and disability prevention (MMDP) services should be included in the basic primary healthcare package. However, progress towards establishing and streamlining MMDP services still remains considerably slow, particularly in the African region. This study aimed to document health beliefs and health seeking behavior towards MMDP services for LF in Luangwa District, Zambia. The study found that community members held negative beliefs about the causes of the disease and lacked awareness of available MMDP services and homecare strategies. Health system and cultural barriers to seeking healthcare included long distances to health facilities, lack of awareness of existing MMDP services, perceived costs of accessing MMDP services, gender and social norms, and fear of stigmatization. The study recommends that LF programs should promote strategies that seek to empower patients and community members with the required information to access and use the MMDP services at the health facilities, as well as adhere to self-care practices in their households.'
 'Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 ( HTLV-1 ) is a retrovirus that infects CD4+ T-cells and causes adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma ( ATL ) and a neurodegenerative disease called HAM/TSP . HTLV-1 is transmitted through cell-to-cell contact, and the accessory protein p8 is important for this process . In this study, the authors identified vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein ( VASP ) as a novel interaction partner of p8. VASP is a protein that promotes actin filament elongation and is important for cell motility. The authors found that VASP interacts with p8 through its EVH1 domain and that this interaction is important for p8 and HTLV-1 Gag transfer between cells. The authors also found that repression of VASP impaired p8 and HTLV-1 Gag transfer between cells. These findings suggest that VASP plays a crucial role in HTLV-1 cell-to-cell transmission and may be a potential target for therapeutic intervention.'
 'Tinnitus is a common form of auditory hallucinations that affects the quality of life of many people. It can manifest as a “ringing” or hissing sound across a certain frequency range, typically with a distinct spectral peak. An observable hearing loss, causing sensory deprivation over a band of frequencies, is present in over 90% of people with tinnitus. From a neural processing point of view, hallucinations correspond to brain activity in sensory networks, which occurs in the absence of an objective external input. In this work, we used an objective-driven learning algorithm to model an early auditory processing neuronal network, e.g., in the dorsal cochlear nucleus. We show that the connectivity patterns and responses learned by the model display several hallmarks of early auditory neuronal networks. We further demonstrate that attenuation of peripheral inputs drives the recurrent network towards its critical point and transition into a tinnitus-like state. In this state, the network activity resembles responses to genuine inputs even in the absence of external stimulation, namely, it “hallucinates” auditory responses. These findings demonstrate how objective-driven plasticity mechanisms that normally act to optimize the network’s input representation can also elicit pathologies such as tinnitus as a result of sensory deprivation.'
 'Porcine hemagglutinating encephalomyelitis virus ( PHEV ) is a highly neurotropic coronavirus that belongs to the genus Betacoronavirus . It is transmitted primarily through respiratory droplets and close contact, entering the central nervous system ( CNS ) from the peripheral nerves at the site of initial infection . The neuroinvasion route of PHEV is poorly understood. In this study, we found that BALB/c mice are susceptible to intranasal PHEV infection and show distinct neurological manifestations. Behavioral study and histopathological examination revealed that PHEV attacks neurons in the CNS and causes significant smell and taste dysfunction in mice. By tracking neuroinvasion, we identified that PHEV invades the CNS via the olfactory nerve and trigeminal nerve located in the nasal cavity, and olfactory sensory neurons ( OSNs ) were susceptible to viral infection. Immunofluorescence staining and ultrastructural observations revealed that viral materials traveling along axons, suggesting axonal transport may engage in rapid viral transmission in the CNS. Moreover, viral replication in the olfactory system and CNS is associated with inflammatory and immune responses, tissue disorganization and dysfunction. Overall, we proposed that PHEV may serve as a potential prototype for elucidating the pathogenesis of coronavirus-associated neurological complications and olfactory and taste disorders.'
20-hydroxyecdysone ( 20E ) is a steroid hormone that regulates metamorphosis in holometabolous insects. In the present study, the authors reveal that 20E regulates glycometabolism and fat body programmed cell death ( PCD ) during metamorphosis in cotton bollworms. They found that 20E upregulates the expression of transcription factor Krüppel-like factor ( Klf15 ) to promote autophagy and apoptosis of larval fat body during metamorphosis. KLF15 promotes autophagic flux and transiting to apoptosis. KLF15 binds to the KLF binding site ( KLF bs ) in the promoter of Atg8 ( autophagy-related gene 8/LC3 ) to upregulate Atg8 expression. Knockdown of Atg8 reduced free fatty acids ( FFAs ), glycerol, free amino acids ( FAAs ), and glucose levels. However, knockdown of Klf15 accumulated FFAs, glycerol, and FAAs. Glycolysis was switched to gluconeogenesis, trehalose and glycogen synthesis were changed to degradation during metamorphosis, which were accompanied by the variation of the related genes expression. Taken together, 20E via KLF15 integrated autophagy and gluconeogenesis by promoting autophagy-related and gluconeogenesis-related genes expression.
'Our study provides a detailed understanding of the exposed viral surface of SARS-CoV-2 by performing multi-microsecond molecular dynamics simulations of a 4.1 million atom system containing a patch of viral membrane with four full-length, fully glycosylated and palmitoylated S proteins. We recover known epitopes on S and reveal promising epitope candidates for structure-based vaccine design. We find that the extensive and inherently flexible glycan coat shields a surface area larger than expected from static structures, highlighting the importance of structural dynamics. Our computational epitope-mapping procedure is general and should thus prove useful for other viral envelope proteins whose structures have been characterized.'
 'The type I interferons ( IFNs ) are important antiviral cytokines that play a critical role in host protection against viruses . In the Syrian hamster model of COVID-19 , intranasal administration of IFN-α starting one day before or one day after infection limited weight loss and decreased viral lung titers . However, when IFN-α was administered starting at the onset of symptoms three days post-infection, it had no impact on the clinical course of SARS-CoV-2 infection . These results suggest that early type I IFN treatment is beneficial, while late interventions are ineffective, although not associated with signs of enhanced disease . The timing of type I IFN treatment may be critical for its efficacy and safety against SARS-CoV-2 .'
'Schistosomiasis is a snail-borne parasitic disease that affects over 250 million people worldwide, mostly in Africa. The disease is caused by blood trematodes of the genus Schistosoma, which have a complex biological cycle involving freshwater snails as intermediate hosts. The most common disease-causing species are S. haematobium and S. mansoni. In this study, the authors evaluated the use of MALDI-TOF MS for the identification of frozen and ethanol-stored snails, including species involved in schistosomes transmission. The authors used protein extracts from different body parts of 530 field specimens belonging to nine species and 89 laboratory-reared specimens, including three species. The spectral analysis yielded intra-species reproducibility and inter-species specificity, which resulted in the correct identification of all the specimens in blind queries, with log-score values greater than 1. The authors demonstrated that MALDI-TOF MS could also be used to identify ethanol-stored snails using proteins extracted from the foot. This study shows for the first time that MALDI-TOF MS is a reliable tool for the rapid identification of frozen and ethanol-stored freshwater snails without any malacological expertise.'
 'A smartphone-based microscopic assay method was developed to screen for the presence of ( oo ) cysts of Cryptosporidium and Giardia in vegetable and water samples. The method uses a ball lens, white LED as illumination source and Lugols's iodine staining to provide magnification and contrast capable of distinguishing ( oo ) cysts of Cryptosporidium and Giardia. The analytical performance of the method was tested by spike recovery experiments. The spike recovery results are comparable with data obtained using commercial brightfield and fluorescence microscope methods. The smartphone microscope system showed comparable performance to commercial microscopic methods. The new method can be a low-cost and easy to implement alternative method for simultaneous detection of ( oo ) cysts in vegetable and water samples in resource limited settings. '
 'Echinococcosis is a zoonotic parasitic disease caused by larval stages of cestodes belonging to the genus Echinococcus . It affects people’s health and safety as well as agropastoral sector . In China , human echinococcosis is a major public health burden , especially in western China . Echinococcosis affects people health as well as agricultural and pastoral economy . Therefore , it is important to understand the prevalence status and spatial distribution of human echinococcosis in order to advance our knowledge of basic information for prevention and control measures reinforcement . Report data on echinococcosis were collected in 370 counties in China in 2018 and were used to assess prevalence and spatial distribution . SPSS 21 . 0 was used to obtain the prevalence rate for CE and AE . For statistical analyses and mapping , all data were processed using SPSS 21 . 0 and ArcGIS 10 . 4 , respectively . Chi-square test and Exact probability method were used to assess spatial autocorrelation and spatial clustering . A total of 47,278 cases of echinococcosis were recorded in 2018 in 370 endemic counties in China . The prevalence rate of human echinococcosis was 10.57 per 10,000 . Analysis of the disease prevalence showed obvious spatial positive autocorrelation in globle spatial autocorrelation with two aggregation modes in local spatial autocorrelation , namely high-high and low-high aggregation areas . The high-high gathering areas were mainly concentrated in northern Tibet , western Qinghai , and Ganzi in the Tibetan Autonomous Region and in Sichuan . The low-high clusters were concentrated in Gamba , Kangma and Yadong counties of Tibet . In addition , spatial scanning analysis revealed two spatial clusters . One type of spatial clusters included 71 counties in Tibet Autonomous Region , 22 counties in Qinghai , 11 counties in Sichuan , three counties in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region , two counties in Yunnan , and one county in Gansu . In the second category , six types of spatial clusters were observed in the counties of Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region , and the Qinghai , Gansu , and Sichuan Provinces . This study showed a serious prevalence of human echinococcosis with obvious spatial aggregation of the disease prevalence in China . The Qinghai-Tibet Plateau is the "hot spot" area of human echinococcosis in China . Findings from this study indicate that there is an urgent need of joint strategies to strengthen efforts for the prevention and control of echinococcosis in China , especially in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau .'
 'Network-based intervention strategies can be effective and cost-efficient approaches to curtailing harmful contagions in myriad settings . However, these strategies are often impractical to implement as they typically assume complete knowledge of the network structure, which is unusual in practice. In this paper, we investigate how different immunization strategies perform under realistic conditions—where the strategies are informed by partially-observed network data. Our results suggest that global immunization strategies, like degree immunization, are optimal in most cases; the exception is at very high levels of missing data, where stochastic strategies, like acquaintance immunization, begin to outstrip them in minimizing outbreaks. Stochastic strategies are more robust in some cases due to the different ways in which they can be affected by missing data. In fact, one of our proposed variants of acquaintance immunization leverages a logistically-realistic ongoing survey-intervention process as a form of targeted data-recovery to improve with increasing levels of missing data. These results support the effectiveness of targeted immunization as a general practice. They also highlight the risks of considering networks as idealized mathematical objects: overestimating the accuracy of network data and foregoing the rewards of additional inquiry.'
 'The brain is a complex organ that generates electrical signals that can be recorded from the scalp or other locations in the body. These signals are used to study brain function and diagnose neurological disorders. However, the relationship between the electrical signals and the underlying brain activity is not straightforward. In this study, we propose a new method for estimating the sources of electrical activity in the brain using extracellular recordings. Our method is based on the concept of kernel Current Source Density (kCSD), which is a way of estimating the current sources in the brain that generate the extracellular potentials recorded by electrodes. We show that our method can recover sources that are not accessible to standard methods, and we illustrate this with simplified examples as well as using evoked potentials from the barrel cortex obtained with a Neuropixels probe and with compatible model data. Our method provides a new tool for studying brain function and diagnosing neurological disorders.'
 'Co-infection of the four major species of human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum ( Pf ) , P . vivax ( Pv ) , P . malariae ( Pm ) , and P . ovale sp . ( Po ) is regularly observed , but there is limited understanding of between-species interactions . In particular , little is known about the effects of multiple Plasmodium species co-infections on gametocyte production . We developed molecular assays for detecting asexual and gametocyte stages of Pf , Pv , Pm , and Po . This is the first description of molecular diagnostics for Pm and Po gametocytes . These assays were implemented in a unique epidemiological setting in Papua New Guinea with sympatric transmission of all four Plasmodium species permitting a comprehensive investigation of species interactions . The observed frequency of Pf-Pv co-infection for asexual parasites ( 14 . 7% ) was higher than expected from individual prevalence rates ( 23 . 8%Pf x 47 . 4%Pv = 11 . 3% ) . The observed frequency of co-infection with Pf and Pv gametocytes ( 4 . 6% ) was higher than expected from individual prevalence rates ( 13 . 1%Pf x 28 . 2%Pv = 3 . 7% ) . The excess risk of co-infection was 1 . 38 ( 95% confidence interval ( CI ) : 1 . 09 , 1 . 67 ) for all parasites and 1 . 37 ( 95% CI: 0 . 95 , 1 . 79 ) for gametocytes . This excess co-infection risk was partially attributable to malaria infections clustering in some villages . Pf-Pv-Pm triple infections were four times more frequent than expected by chance alone , which could not be fully explained by infections clustering in highly exposed individuals . The effect of co-infection on parasite density was analyzed by systematic comparison of all pairwise interactions . This revealed a significant 6 . 57-fold increase of Pm density when co-infected with Pf . Pm gametocytemia also increased with Pf co-infection . Heterogeneity in exposure to mosquitoes is a key epidemiological driver of Plasmodium co-infection . Among the four co-circulating parasites , Pm benefitted most from co-infection with other species . Beyond this , no general prevailing pattern of suppression or facilitation was identified in pairwise analysis of gametocytemia and parasitemia of the four species . This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials . gov , Trial ID: NCT02143934 .'
 'Effective and powerful survival mediation models are currently lacking . To partly fill such knowledge gap , we particularly focus on the mediation analysis that includes multiple DNA methylations acting as exposures , one gene expression as the mediator and one survival time as the outcome . We proposed IUSMMT ( intersection-union survival mixture-adjusted mediation test ) to effectively examine the existence of mediation effect by fitting an empirical three-component mixture null distribution . With extensive simulation studies , we demonstrated the advantage of IUSMMT over existing methods . We applied IUSMMT to ten TCGA cancers and identified multiple genes that exhibited mediating effects . We further revealed that most of the identified regions , in which genes behaved as active mediators , were cancer type-specific and exhibited a full mediation from DNA methylation CpG sites to the survival risk of various types of cancers . Overall , IUSMMT represents an effective and powerful alternative for survival mediation analysis; our results also provide new insights into the functional role of DNA methylation and gene expression in cancer progression/prognosis and demonstrate potential therapeutic targets for future clinical practice .'
 'Developmental plasticity is a phenomenon whereby an organism can change its phenotype in response to environmental cues. This can be advantageous in allowing organisms to adapt to changing environments. However, the genetic mechanisms underlying plasticity are not well understood. In this study, the authors investigated the genetic basis of predatory vs. non-predatory dimorphism in the nematode Pristionchus pacificus. They found that the gene regulatory network controlling this dimorphism consists of genes of extremely different ages. The authors also identified two nuclear hormone receptors, NHR-1 and NHR-40, that control mouth-form determination. These receptors share transcriptional targets that are rapidly evolving and have no orthologs in Caenorhabditis elegans. The authors used a variety of molecular and genetic techniques to study the GRN controlling this dimorphism, including transcriptomic profiling, suppressor screens, and mutant analysis. Their findings provide new insights into the genetic mechanisms underlying developmental plasticity and the evolution of novel traits.'
 'Mitochondria are important organelles in the cell that play a crucial role in energy production and calcium signaling. In this study, we used a computer model to investigate the role of mitochondria in the development of alternans, a type of arrhythmia that can lead to sudden cardiac death. We found that mitochondrial depolarization, which can occur in response to oxidative stress or other factors, can promote alternans by altering the activity of calcium channels and pumps in the cell. Our findings suggest that strategies to protect mitochondria from depolarization may be effective in preventing alternans and other types of arrhythmias.'
 'Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome ( HFRS ) is a zoonosis caused by Hantaviruses and characterized by clinical features of high fever, hemorrhage, and renal damage . China has the largest number of HFRS cases worldwide, accounting for over 90% of the total reported cases . In this study, the authors used surveyed HFRS data and satellite imagery to conduct geostatistical analysis for investigating the associations of rapid urbanization, water bodies, and other factors on the spatiotemporal dynamics of HFRS from year 2005 to 2018 in Xi’an City, Northwest China. The results revealed an evident epidemic aggregation in the incidence of HFRS within Xi’an City with a fluctuation in periodic time series. Rapid urbanization was found to greatly affect the HFRS incidence in two different time phases. HFRS caused by urbanization influences farmers to a lesser extent than it does to non-farmers. The association of water bodies with the HFRS incidence rate was found to be higher within the radii of 696.15 m and 1575.39 m, which represented significant thresholds. The results also showed that geomatics approaches can be used for spatiotemporally investigating the HFRS dynamic characteristics and supporting effective allocations of resources to formulate strategies for preventing epidemics. '
 'Helicobacter pylori is a bacterial pathogen that chronically infects the stomach of approximately half of the world’s population . Manifestation of clinical diseases associated with H . pylori infection is driven by strain properties and host responses; and as chronic infection persists, both are subject to change . Previous studies have documented frequent and extensive within-host bacterial genetic variation . To define how within-host diversity contributes to phenotypes related to H . pylori pathogenesis , this project leverages a collection of 39 clinical isolates acquired prospectively from a single subject at two time points and from multiple gastric sites . During the six years separating collection of these isolates, this individual, initially harboring a duodenal ulcer, progressed to gastric atrophy and concomitant loss of acid secretion. Whole genome sequence analysis identified 1,767 unique single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) across isolates and a nucleotide substitution rate of 1.3x10-4 substitutions/site/year. Gene ontology analysis identified cell envelope genes among the genes with excess accumulation of nonsynonymous SNPs (nSNPs). A maximum likelihood tree based on genetic similarity clusters isolates from each time point separately. Within time points, there is segregation of subgroups with phenotypic differences in bacterial morphology, ability to induce inflammatory cytokines, and mouse colonization. Higher inflammatory cytokine induction in recent isolates maps to shared polymorphisms in the Cag PAI protein, CagY, while rod morphology in a subgroup of recent isolates mapped to eight mutations in three distinct helical cell shape determining (csd) genes. The presence of subgroups with unique genetic and phenotypic properties suggest complex selective forces and multiple niches within the stomach during chronic infection. '
 'Soil-transmitted helminths ( STH ) are a group of parasites that cause significant morbidity in children and women of reproductive age . The World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommends preventive chemotherapy ( PC ) of at-risk populations with anthelminthics to control these infections . Historically , STH are very intensively transmitted in Pemba Island ( Zanzibar ) . A survey conducted in 1994 in 12 schools estimated a STH prevalence near to 100% . This extremely high prevalence induced the introduction of PC in the island; initially , however , PC was not regularly administered because of difficulties linked to drug procurement . A second STH survey , conducted in 2011 , in 24 schools estimated a prevalence of STH of 89%; after this survey , PC was regularly administered until 2018 . We conducted a survey in 2021 using the same method as that used in 2011 . The prevalence of STH was evaluated at 80% ( 95% CI 78 . 1–81 . 5 ) and most of the STH cases were due to Trichuris trichiura . More than 32% ( 95% CI 30 . 3–34 . 0 ) of the children investigated had infections of moderate or heavy intensity . PC has been conducted for over 25 years in Pemba Island . However , despite its beneficial impact , both the prevalence and the intensity of STH infections remain high , and the intervention has been insufficient in controlling STH morbidity . This is probably due to a combination of irregular PC , climatic conditions favourable to STH transmission , the low sensitivity of T . trichiura to benzimidazoles , high population density and poor sanitation . Improvement of sanitation coverage remains a key measure to permanently reduce the prevalence and intensity of STH . Possible changes to the present PC approaches to better control STH in Pemba would be ( i ) to assure high coverage in all schools , ( ii ) to use mebendazole instead of albendazole given its better activity on T . trichiura and ( iii ) to use a combination of ivermectin and mebendazole to further increase anthelminthic efficacy on T . trichiura .'
 'Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) is a mosquito-borne virus that has caused millions of infections worldwide . CHIKV enters cells primarily via clathrin-mediated endocytosis ( CME ) . Upon internalization, CHIKV particles move through the cell and deliver their genome to the cytosol . In this study, we examined the importance of the microtubule network during the early steps of infection and dissected the intracellular trafficking behavior of CHIKV particles during cell entry . We observed two distinct CHIKV intracellular trafficking patterns prior to membrane hemifusion . Whereas half of the CHIKV virions remained static during cell entry and fused in the cell periphery , the other half showed fast-directed microtubule-dependent movement prior to delivery to Rab5-positive early endosomes and predominantly fused in the perinuclear region of the cell . Disruption of the microtubule network reduced the number of infected cells . At these conditions, membrane hemifusion activity was not affected yet fusion was restricted to the cell periphery . Furthermore, follow-up experiments revealed that disruption of the microtubule network impairs the delivery of the viral genome to the cell cytosol . We therefore hypothesize that microtubules may direct the particle to a cellular location that is beneficial for establishing infection or aids in nucleocapsid uncoating .'
 'In bacteria, nucleotide second messengers are used to transduce external signals into specific cellular responses. Cyclic di-AMP (c-di-AMP) is the only known essential nucleotide second messenger. In addition to its well-established role in potassium homeostasis, we observed that glutamate is as toxic as potassium for a c-di-AMP-free strain of the Gram-positive model bacterium Bacillus subtilis. We isolated suppressor mutants that allow growth of a c-di-AMP-free strain under these toxic conditions. Characterization of glutamate resistant suppressors revealed that they contain pairs of mutations, in most cases affecting glutamate and potassium homeostasis. Among these mutations, several independent mutations affected a novel glutamate transporter, AimA (Amino acid importer A, formerly YbeC). Unexpectedly, some of the isolated suppressor mutants could suppress glutamate toxicity by a combination of mutations that affect phospholipid biosynthesis and a specific gain-of-function mutation of a mechanosensitive channel of small conductance (YfkC), resulting in the acquisition of a device for glutamate export. Cultivation of the c-di-AMP-free strain on complex medium was an even greater challenge because the amounts of potassium, glutamate, and other osmolytes are substantially higher than in minimal medium. Suppressor mutants viable on complex medium could only be isolated under anaerobic conditions if one of the two c-di-AMP receptor proteins, DarA or DarB, was absent. Also on complex medium, potassium and osmolyte toxicity are the major bottlenecks for the growth of B. subtilis in the absence of c-di-AMP. Our results indicate that the essentiality of c-di-AMP in B. subtilis is caused by the global impact of the second messenger nucleotide on different aspects of cellular physiology. '
 Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) is a common human virus that causes lymphomas and epithelial cell cancers . EBV can cause endemic Burkitt lymphoma in equatorial Africa and post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorders/lymphomas in immunocompromised hosts . In this study, the authors found that EBV, through activation of cellular STAT3, prevents phosphorylation of Chk1, and thereby, suppresses activation of the intra-S phase cell-cycle checkpoint. This observation prompted the authors to examine the consequences on DNA repair since homologous recombination repair, the most error-free form, requires phosphoChk1. The authors now report that the defect in Chk1 phosphorylation also curtails RAD51 nucleation, and thereby, homologous recombination repair of DNA double strand breaks. The resulting reliance on error-prone microhomology-mediated end-joining (MMEJ) repair makes EBV-transformed cells susceptible to PARP inhibition and simultaneously accrual of genome-wide deletions and insertions resulting from synthesis-dependent MMEJ. Analysis of transcriptomic and drug susceptibility data from hundreds of cancer lines reveals a STAT3-dependent gene-set predictive of susceptibility of cancers to synthetic lethal PARP inhibition. These findings demonstrate how the tumor virus EBV re-shapes cellular DNA repair, provide the first genome-wide evidence for insertions resulting from MMEJ in human cells, and expand the range of cancers (EBV-related and -unrelated) that are likely to respond to synthetic lethal inhibitors given the high prevalence of cancers with constitutively active STAT3.
 'Buruli ulcer is a debilitating disease caused by an environmental bacterium, Mycobacterium ulcerans. It is a neglected tropical disease that affects over 33 countries worldwide, with the majority of cases occurring in West and Central Africa. The mode of transmission is unclear, hindering the implementation of adequate prevention for the population. Early diagnosis and treatment are crucial to minimizing morbidity, costs, and preventing long-term disability. Biological confirmation of clinical diagnosis of Buruli ulcer is essential before starting chemotherapy. Currently, the gold standard biological confirmation is the quantitative PCR targeting the insertion sequence IS2404 of M . ulcerans performed on cutaneous samples. However, the low PCR confirmation rate in endemic African countries has led to the creation of the network “BU-LABNET” in 2019. The network aims to improve the quality of BU diagnosis in African countries by harmonizing procedures, providing reagents, and offering technical assistance to member laboratories. The first step of the network was to harmonize the procedures and ship specific reagents to each laboratory. With this system in place, implementation of these procedures for testing and follow-up was easy, and the laboratories were able to carry out their first quality control with a very high success rate. The network has the potential to improve the quality of BU diagnosis in African countries and ultimately lead to better patient outcomes.'
'The Cluster-of-Differentiation-44 protein ( CD44 ) is a versatile molecule that plays a crucial role in cell adhesion and migration. The process is controlled by two different pathways: palmitoylation keeps CD44 in lipid raft domains and disables the linking to the cytoplasmic adaptor, whereas the presence of phosphatidylinositol-4 , 5-biphosphate ( PIP2 ) lipids accelerates the formation of the CD44-adaptor complex. The molecular mechanism explaining how CD44 is migrating into and out of the lipid raft domains and its dependence on both protein modifications and membrane composition remains elusive. In this study, we performed extensive molecular dynamics simulations to study the raft affinity and translocation of CD44 in phase separated model membranes as well as more realistic plasma membrane environments. We observe a delicate balance between the influence of the palmitoylations and the presence of PIP2 lipids: whereas the palmitoylations of CD44 increases the affinity for raft domains, PIP2 lipids have the opposite effect. Additionally, we studied the association between CD44 and the membrane adaptor FERM in dependence of these factors. We find that the presence of PIP2 lipids allows CD44 and FERM to associate in an experimentally observed binding mode whereas the highly palmitoylated species shows no binding affinity. Together, our results shed light on the sophisticated mechanism on how membrane translocation and peripheral protein association can be controlled by both protein modifications and membrane composition.'
 'The rafts of fire ants ( Solenopsis invicta ) are often studied in the context of their ability to create aggregated structures comprised entirely of their own bodies, including tether-like protrusions that facilitate exploration of and escape from flooded environments. While similar protrusions are observed in cytoskeletons and cellular aggregates, they are generally dependent on morphogens or external gradients. Here we demonstrate through an ant-inspired, agent-based numerical model how protrusions in ant rafts may emerge spontaneously due to local interactions. The model is comprised of a condensed structural network of agents that represents the monolayer of interconnected worker ants, which floats on the water and gives ant rafts their form. Experimentally, this layer perpetually contracts, which we capture through the pairwise contraction of all neighboring structural agents at a strain rate of d˙. On top of the structural layer, we model a dispersed, on-lattice layer of motile agents that represents free ants, which walk on top of the floating network. Experimentally, these self-propelled free ants walk with some mean persistence length and speed that we capture through an ant-inspired phenomenological model. Local interactions occur between neighboring free ants within some radius of detection, R, and the persistence length of freely active agents is tuned through a noise parameter, η, as introduced by the Vicsek model. Both R and η were fixed to match the experimental trajectories of free ants. Treadmilling of the raft occurs as agents transition between the structural and free layers in accordance with experimental observations. Ultimately, we demonstrate how phases of exploratory protrusion growth may be induced by increased ant activity as characterized by a dimensionless parameter, A. These results provide an example in which functional morphogenesis of a living system may emerge purely from local interactions at the constituent length scale, thereby providing a source of inspiration for the development of decentralized, autonomous active matter and swarm robotics.'
 'The study aimed to investigate the differences in blood-feeding behavior between two subspecies of mosquitoes, Culex pipiens quinquefasciatus Say (Cx. quinquefasciatus) and Culex pipiens form molestus Forskal (Cx. molestus), in the Cx. pipiens complex group. The study found that the two subspecies have different olfactory gene expression and olfactory gene repertoire composition. The study also found that the roles of particular olfactory receptors in Cx. quinquefasciatus blood-feeding behavior were evaluated by RNAi. The study identified five, seven, 24, and 3 Cx. quinquefasciatus-specific OBPs, Cx. molestus-specific OBPs, Cx. quinquefasciatus-specific ORs, and Cx. molestus-specific ORs, respectively. The study also found that OR5 and OR78 were expressed only in Cx. quinquefasciatus and Cx. molestus, respectively. The study also found that the blood-feeding rates of the OR5 and OR78 dsRNA groups were significantly lower than those of the EGFP group. The study also found that most OBPs and ORs were expressed in both subspecies but showed divergence in expression level. The study also found that OR5 and OR78 might be species-specific expressed genes that regulate the olfactory behaviors of Cx. quinquefasciatus and Cx. molestus, respectively. The study also found that the RNA interference of OR5 and OR78 could inhibit the blood-feeding behavior of Cx. quinquefasciatus, providing new targets for screening effective repellent compounds to control mosquito-borne diseases effectively and efficiently.'
 'We present a computational model of the hippocampal CA1 network that describes the formation, dynamics, and stabilization of place fields. We show that place field formation is due to somatic disinhibition and spatially modulated inputs, while place field stabilization is due to dendritic inhibition and synaptic plasticity. Our model suggests that different types of interneurons are essential to unravel the mechanisms underlying place field plasticity. We predict that artificially induced dendritic events can shift place fields even after place field stabilization. Our model reproduces a wide range of observations from the hippocampal CA1 network and provides a circuit-level understanding. It also makes predictions that can be tested in future experiments.'
'Molecular xenomonitoring ( MX ) is a method used to detect parasite DNA in the vector population to monitor onchocerciasis transmission. However, the sensitivity of MX for detecting onchocerciasis-positive communities has not been evaluated. In this study, we conducted a systematic review of studies reporting the prevalence of Onchocerca volvulus DNA in wild-caught Simulium spp. flies ( MX rate ) and corresponding prevalence of microfilaria ( mf ) in humans. We found that MX is sensitive to communities with ongoing onchocerciasis transmission and has potential to predict human mf prevalence. However, further data is required to understand this relationship, particularly from MX surveys conducted earlier in control programmes before transmission has been interrupted. Our findings suggest that MX can be used as a surveillance tool for onchocerciasis elimination programmes and may also be useful for control programmes. '
 'Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease caused by the obligate intracellular bacteria Mycobacterium leprae. The lectin pathway of complement (LP) has long been recognized as favoring the establishment of infection and development of disease. To assist infection, M . leprae bacteria usurp complement activation to be opsonized and more readily phagocytosed into macrophages, one of their preferred host cells. In fact, the LP has strong evidence that it is involved in the pathogenesis of leprosy. The MASP1 gene encodes the serine proteases MASP-1 and MASP-3 and the non-enzymatic protein MAp44. These three proteins circulate in plasma as homodimers complexed with pattern recognition molecules (PRMs). MASP-1 autoactivates and transactivates MASP-2, leading to the cleavage of complement factors C2 and C4, in order to form the C3 convertase (C4bC2b). C4bC2b cleaves C3 and generates the anaphylatoxin C3a and the opsonin C3b. C3b is deposited on the target and recognized by complement receptors (CRs), which internalize the opsonized elements into phagocytes. The MASP1 gene variants and products are associated with susceptibility to leprosy and to the different clinical forms of the disease. The study provides a better understanding of the immunological clinical spectrum of leprosy and of the role played by the LP in mycobacterial infections. The findings may contribute to the development of new therapeutic strategies for leprosy and other mycobacterial infections.'
 'In this study, we show that nongenetic phenotypic variation can speed up evolution in environments where available carbon and energy sources change over time. We use an experimentally validated model of Escherichia coli growth on two alternative carbon sources, glucose and acetate. On the superior carbon source ( glucose ), all cells achieve high growth rates, while on the inferior carbon source ( acetate ), only a small fraction of the population manages to initiate growth. We show that noise in the expression of a transcription factor that is repressed in the presence of the superior carbon source can increase the probability that cells start growing on the inferior carbon source. In doing so, it can decrease the severity of the bottleneck and increase mean population fitness whenever this fitness is low. A modest amount of noise can also enhance the fitness effects of a beneficial allele that increases the fraction of a population initiating growth on acetate. Additionally, noise can protect this allele from extinction, accelerate its spread, and increase its likelihood of going to fixation. Central to the adaptation-enhancing principle we identify is the ability of noise to mitigate population bottlenecks, particularly in environments that fluctuate periodically. Because such bottlenecks are frequent in fluctuating environments, and because periodically fluctuating environments themselves are common, this principle may apply to a broad range of environments and organisms.'
 'In this study, we used a novel RNA-protein interaction detection assay called RaPID to identify mosquito proteins that interact with the dengue virus (DENV) RNA in infected mosquito cells. We found that two mosquito proteins, Sec61A1 and Loquacious (Loqs), are in complex with the DENV RNA. Depletion analysis demonstrated that both Sec61A1 and Loqs have pro-viral functions in the DENV infectious cycle. Co-localization and pull-down assays showed that Loqs interacts with viral protein NS3 and both full-length and subgenomic viral RNAs. While Loqs coats the entire positive-stranded viral RNA, it binds selectively to the 3’ end of the negative-strand of the viral genome. In-depth analyses showed that the absence of Loqs did not affect translation or turnover of the viral RNA but modulated viral replication. Loqs also displayed pro-viral functions for several flaviviruses in infected mosquito cells, suggesting a conserved role for Loqs in flavivirus-infected mosquito cells. Our findings provide new insights into the role of Loqs in DENV replication and suggest that Loqs may be a potential target for antiviral therapy.'
'Temporal environmental variations affect diversity in communities of competing populations. In particular, the covariance between competition and environment is known to facilitate invasions of rare species via the storage effect. Here we present a quantitative study of the effects of temporal variations in two-species and diverse communities. We compare four scenarios: environmental variations may be either periodic (seasonal) or stochastic, and the dynamics may support the storage effect (global competition) or not (local competition). In two-species communities, coexistence is quantified via the mean time to absorption, and we show that stochastic variations yield shorter persistence time because they allow for rare sequences of bad years. In diverse communities, where the steady-state reflects a colonization-extinction equilibrium, the actual number of temporal niches plays a crucial role. When this number is large, the same trends hold: storage effect and periodic variations increase both species richness and the evenness of the community. Surprisingly, when the number of temporal niches is small, global competition acts to decrease species richness and evenness, as it focuses the competition to specific periods, thus increasing the effective fitness differences. In summary, we show that temporal environmental variations have the potential to stabilize a system of competing species and to increase the persistence time of diverse assemblages. The potential role of environmental variations in promoting taxonomic and genetic diversity is quantified and discussed. Our study provides a theoretical framework for understanding the role of temporal environmental variations in promoting biodiversity and for predicting the effects of climate change on ecosystems.'
 'Evolutionary Trace (ET) is a computational method that predicts the functional importance of amino acid residues in proteins. It correlates sequence variations with evolutionary divergences to rank sequence positions as more or less important to function. Here, we adapted ET to predict functional nucleotides in RNA sequences. We tested the method on a representative set of RNA molecules from the Rfam database and found that ET bases obey the same general rules as ET residues. In particular, we focused on a subset of well-characterized RNAs with known tertiary structures, which account for 7% of our test set and are also fairly representative of overall RNA biology. In practice, the data show that Evolutionary Trace can be readily applied to multiple sequence alignments of homologous fncRNAs to identify nucleotides of functional importance. This work is broadly relevant to studies of structure-function in RNA and to the development of new therapeutic targets in RNA-based diseases.'
 'We investigate the source detection problem in epidemiology, which is one of the most important issues for controlling epidemics. We propose a method that combines a Bayesian approach with a stochastic, spatially-explicit epidemiological model for waterborne disease. We use human mobility networks within this model to calibrate the parameters of our mixture model. Our estimator only requires first-arrival times of the epidemic by putative observers, typically located only at a small proportion of nodes. We demonstrate our method within the context of the 2000-2002 cholera outbreak in the KwaZulu-Natal province of South Africa. Our approach provides a statistically well-defined region of nodes that are likely to be the spreading origin of the observed process, accompanied by a corresponding posterior probability. We integrate cholera-specific transmission models in network-based source detection, use human mobility networks in the complex spreading of waterborne diseases, and develop an informed prior probability distribution. Our method has been implemented in the NetOrigin package in R. '
'Recent advances in multiplex imaging techniques have allowed for the staining of multiple markers within a single tissue sample, providing a wealth of information for researchers. However, the limited space on the panel for markers can make it difficult to include all important markers. To address this issue, computational approaches have been developed to select an optimally reduced panel that captures the maximum amount of information with the fewest markers. In this study, we evaluate several panel selection approaches and demonstrate the ability of deep learning architectures to reconstruct the full panel's information from a reduced marker set using breast cancer tissue microarray datasets with cyclic immunofluorescence staining. Our results show that all methods perform adequately and can re-capture cell types using only 18 of 25 markers ( 72% of the original panel size ). These findings suggest that computational approaches can be used to design more efficient multiplex imaging panels that maximize the amount of information retained with respect to certain evaluation metrics and architecture biases.'
 'Leptospirosis is a bacterial infection caused by Leptospira bacteria that can affect humans and animals. The infection can be asymptomatic or cause a range of symptoms, including fever, headache, muscle pain, and jaundice. In severe cases, it can lead to organ failure and death. The kidneys are one of the organs that can be affected by leptospirosis. In this study, researchers used a hamster model to investigate the dynamics of Leptospira bacteria in the kidneys and the extent of renal dysfunction in the acute and chronic phases of leptospirosis. They found that the distribution of Leptospira bacteria in the kidneys during the acute phase may influence the decline in renal function during the chronic phase. The study provides important insights into the pathogenesis of leptospirosis and the potential for long-term renal damage in survivors of the acute phase of the infection.'
 'Talaromycosis is a serious regional disease endemic in Southeast Asia, particularly in China, where it is mainly concentrated in the southern region, especially in Guangxi. The in-hospital mortality rate of HIV/AIDS patients with T . marneffei infection is 13.3%, and the most common complications/coinfections are pneumonia, oral candidiasis, and tuberculosis. The predictive XGBoost model exhibited 0.71 sensitivity, 0.99 specificity, and 0.97 AUC in the training dataset, and our outcome prediction model provided robust discrimination in the testing dataset, showing an AUC of 0.90 with 0.69 sensitivity and 0.96 specificity. Septic shock and respiratory failure were the most important predictive features, followed by uric acid, urea, platelets, and the AST/ALT ratios. The XGBoost machine learning model is a good predictor in the hospitalization outcome of HIV/AIDS patients with T . marneffei infection. The model may have potential application in mortality prediction and high-risk factor identification in the talaromycosis population.'
 'Toxocariasis is a parasitic zoonosis that has been identified as an under-diagnosed health disparity in the United States. The study aimed to investigate the presence of Toxocara eggs in New York City public spaces and their developmental stage. The study found that Toxocara cati was the predominant species and that eggs were widespread in all five boroughs, with the highest contamination rate in the Bronx. Embryonated eggs were only found in the Bronx playgrounds, with over 70% of eggs recovered in embryonic form and the highest egg burden. The study highlights the need for reducing environmental Toxocara contamination and additional rigorous public health interventions to interrupt transmission to humans, especially in poorer neighborhoods. The study also emphasizes the importance of addressing the covert form of toxocariasis, which is subclinical and can cause cognitive and developmental delays.'
 'Scorpions are a major public health problem in South America, with the genus Tityus being the most medically significant. One of the most dangerous species is Tityus trivittatus, which is found from southwest Brazil to central-northern and eastern Argentina. In this study, we investigated the lethality, composition, antigenicity, and enzymatic activity of venom from a T . trivittatus population found in urban areas of eastern Paraguay, where it has caused severe envenomation of children. Our results indicate that this population produces a potently toxic venom with an LD50 around 1 . 19 mg/kg. Venom neutralization in preliminary mouse bioassays was complete when using Brazilian anti-T . serrulatus antivenom but only partial when using Argentinean anti-T . trivittatus antivenom. Venom competitive solid-phase enzyme immunoassays and immunoblotting from Argentinean and Paraguayan T . trivittatus populations indicated that antigenic differences exist across the species range. SDS-PAGE showed variations in type and relative amounts of venom proteins between T . trivitattus samples from Argentina and Paraguay. MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry indicated that while some sodium channel toxins are shared, others are population-specific. Proteolytic activity by zymography and peptide identification through nESI-MS/MS also point out that population-specific proteases may exist in T . trivitattus, which are postulated to be involved in the envenoming process. A time-calibrated molecular phylogeny of mitochondrial COI sequences revealed a significant ( 8 . 14% ) genetic differentiation between the Argentinean and Paraguayan populations, which appeared to have diverged between the mid Miocene and early Pliocene. Altogether, toxinological and genetic evidence indicate that T . trivitattus populations from Paraguay and Argentina correspond to distinct, unique cryptic species, and suggest that further venom and taxonomic diversity exists in synanthropic southern South American Tityus than previously thought. '
'Bats use echolocation to navigate and find food. They can also use echoes to identify plants and flowers. Some bat-pollinated flowers have evolved to be acoustically conspicuous to bats. However, it is unclear whether other bat-pollinated flowers also have acoustic adaptations. To investigate this, we recorded echoes of 168 flowers from 12 different species, including 6 bat-pollinated and 6 insect-pollinated species. We analyzed the spectral target strength of the echoes and trained a convolutional neural network ( CNN ) to classify the flowers. We found that bat-pollinated flowers have a significantly higher echo target strength and differ in their morphology, specifically in the lower variance of their morphological features. We also found that a good classification accuracy can be achieved with only one echo/spectrogram to classify the 12 different plant species, both bat-pollinated and otherwise. The higher classification performance of bat-pollinated flowers can be explained by the lower variance of their morphology. This suggests that bat-pollinated flowers have evolved to be acoustically conspicuous to bats, which may help them attract pollinators.'
 'Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease caused by parasitic worms of the genus Schistosoma. The World Health Organization (WHO) regards schistosomiasis as a neglected tropical disease (NTD) and estimates that at least 206.4 million people require preventive treatment for schistosomiasis, out of which only 89 million have been treated (WHO, 2018). In China, all infections are due to Schistosoma japonicum with Oncomelania hupensis as the sole intermediate snail host which is amphibious rather than aquatic and associated with high moisture microhabitats. In contrast to other schistosome species adapted to humans (S. haematobium, S. mansoni, S. intercalatum, S. guineensis and S. mekongi), S. japonicum not only infects humans but also a wide variety of mammals, particularly domestic animals that act as reservoirs such as the water buffalo. Based on the epidemiological pattern of schistosomiasis and ecological characteristics of the snails, snail habitats can be categorized into three types in China: (i) marshland and lake areas, (ii) mountainous and hilly areas, and (iii) plain areas with waterway networks. After decades of efforts to combat schistosomiasis in China, the number of patients has dropped significantly thanks to mass drug administration (MDA) with praziquantel which controls the morbidity due to schistosomiasis effectively. However, elimination of schistosomiasis requires other methods, in particular control of the transmission of the disease. Surveys conducted in the mid-1950s showed that the snail habitat areas were about 14.3 billion km2, which declined to 3.6 billion km2 in 2015. This must decline further but progress in this direction presents complex challenges, which vary depending on the ecology and topography of the endemic areas including lake and marshlands and the hilly or mountainous type. The O. hupensis snail species is difficult to trace as it is amphibious, generally widely distributed and requires particular environmental conditions, such as high moisture. In the hilly and mountainous areas its distribution is scattered and with often inaccessible habitats making snail control a challenge. In addition, the use of molluscicides is restricted due to environmental protection, resulting in unstable epidemic situations that cannot easily be controlled. Although infected snails are rarely found In recent years, the O. hupensis habitats have not disappeared and some areas even show an upward trend. For example, a snail survey in 2016 covering a total area of 8,140 km2 found snails in 2,351 km2, including 13 km2 of new areas where snails had not been detected before, which meant an increase of 102.16% compared with 2015. Previous studies have shown when ecological conditions become more favourable, potential snail habitats expand resulting in a general increase in snail numbers, and also an increase in numbers of infected snails. Thus, identification and monitoring of the snail habitats is crucial for effective schistosomiasis control in the long term. This is traditionally carried out through manual snail collection in the field, which has been done on a big scale in China since the 1960s. This approach is effective but requires both a large human effort and financial resources. Furthermore, this approach is difficult in less accessible areas, such as hills and marshes. For this reason, remotely sensed environmental data derived from satellite imagery, have been widely used to identify snail habitats, which in combination with actual data on snail distributions as ground truth can be used to predict schistosomiasis risk. However, this method can only surmise the existence of snails through the presence of potential habitats and association with particular values of certain environmental variables. Thus, the risk of misclassification is high, in particular as the resolution of the satellite optical sensors is generally not sufficient for unequivocal identification of a snail habitat. To improve identification, we therefore attempted a modelling strategy with machine-learning as the approach to achieve superior accuracy on the basis of our original research. ', Keyword: '['oncomelania', 'snails', 'artificial neural networks', 'hydrology', 'habitats', 'invertebrates', 'parasitic diseases', 'organisms', 'helminth infections', 'eukaryota', 'malacology',
 'Giardia duodenalis is a parasite that causes giardiasis, a major diarrheal disease worldwide. The treatment of giardiasis relies mainly on metronidazole (MTZ) and albendazole (ABZ). However, the emergence of ABZ resistance in this parasite has prompted studies to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying this phenomenon. In this study, we aimed to identify the enzyme responsible for ABZ metabolism and its role in ABZ resistance in G. duodenalis. We found that the iron-containing cofactor heme induces higher mRNA expression levels of flavohemoglobin (gFlHb) in Giardia trophozoites. Molecular docking analyses predict favorable interactions of gFlHb with ABZ, ABZSO, and ABZSOO. Spectral analyses of recombinant gFlHb in the presence of ABZ, ABZSO, and ABZSOO showed high affinities for each of these compounds with Kd values of 22.7, 19.1, and 23.8 nM respectively. ABZ is indirectly oxidized to ABZSO by superoxide generated from the NADH oxidase activity of gFlHb. In a similar manner, the superoxide-generating enzyme xanthine oxidase was able to produce ABZSO in the presence of xanthine and ABZ. Interestingly, we found that gFlHb mRNA expression is lower in albendazole-resistant clones compared to those that are sensitive to this drug. Furthermore, all albendazole-resistant clones transfected to overexpress gFlHb displayed higher susceptibility to the drug than the parent clones. Collectively these findings indicate a role for gFlHb in ABZ conversion to its sulfoxide and that gFlHb down-regulation acts as a passive pharmacokinetic mechanism of resistance in this parasite.'
 'Yeast cells are able to overcome organosulfur auxotrophy when they are inoculated at high cell density . This phenomenon has been observed in many yeast species, including Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Candida albicans, and Yarrowia lipolytica. In this study, the authors discovered a previously unknown gene product, Hydrogen Sulfide Utilizing-1 (Hsu1p), which allows yeast cells to grow in the absence of organosulfur compounds by directly assimilating sulfur from hydrogen sulfide. The authors found that Hsu1p functions as a homocysteine synthase, performing the fixation of inorganic sulfide in place of Met17p, thereby generating the homocysteine required for methionine and cysteine biosynthesis. This discovery provides new insights into the mechanisms of sulfur fixation in yeast and may have implications for understanding the response of yeast to sulfur limitation in natural environments.'
 'Juvenile hormone ( JH ) is a hormone that stimulates insect vitellogenesis and egg production. In the migratory locust Locusta migratoria , JH-regulated remodeling of zonula adherens ( ZA ) , a belt-like adherens junction maintaining physical linking between follicle cells, was found to be responsible for patency opening during vitellogenesis. JH triggered phosphorylation of Partitioning defective protein 3 ( Par3 ) via a signaling cascade including G protein-coupled receptor ( GPCR ) , small GTPase Cell division cycle 42 ( Cdc42 ) and atypical Protein kinase C ( aPKC ) . Par3 phosphorylation resulted in its disassociation from β-Catenin , the cytoplasmic partner of ZA core component E-Cadherin . Release of Par3 from the β-Catenin/E-Cadherin complex caused ZA disassembly at tricellular contacts, consequently leading to patency enlargement. This study provides new insight into how JH stimulates insect vitellogenesis and egg production via inducing the opening of paracellular route for vitellogenin transport crossing the follicular epithelium barrier.'
 'Alcohol-related liver disease ( ALD ) is a major cause of death worldwide and is difficult to diagnose in its early stages. In this study, we used data from the Danish National Patient Registry to identify relevant upstream diagnoses that help understand the development of ALD and meaningful downstream diagnoses that represent its progression to liver failure. We found that ALC is the most common form of ALD in the registry data and that ALC patients have a strong over-representation of diagnoses associated with liver dysfunction. We also discovered that the small number of ALF patients are less sick than those with ALC. Our case–control study performed on the sets of patients with ALC, ALF and their matched non-ALD controls highlighted different groups of comorbidities related to alcohol-overuse, under/mal-nutrition, liver dysfunction, trauma and life-style, and upper intestinal or respiratory mucosal diseases. These comorbidities could be general predictors of ALD. Our findings highlight the potential of this approach to uncover knowledge in registry data related to ALD.'
 'During development, neurons undergo dramatic changes in their dendritic arbors, including pruning and regeneration. The mechanisms underlying these changes are not well understood, but microRNAs (miRNAs) have recently emerged as important regulators of developmental timing in the nervous system. In this study, the authors show that the Drosophila miRNA miR-87 is a critical regulator of dendrite regeneration in sensory neurons. Loss of miR-87 function impairs dendrite regeneration after developmentally-programmed pruning, while overexpression of miR-87 leads to precocious initiation of dendrite regeneration. The authors also identify the transcriptional repressor Tramtrack69 (Ttk69) as a functional target for miR-87-mediated repression, and show that miR-87 is required for dendrite regeneration after acute injury in the larval stage. These findings suggest that miR-87 promotes dendrite regrowth during regeneration at least in part through suppressing Ttk69 in Drosophila sensory neurons, and indicate that developmental and injury-induced dendrite regeneration share a common intrinsic mechanism to reactivate dendrite growth.'
γδ T cells are a type of unconventional T cell that play an important role in the immune response to malaria. These cells express the Vδ2 and Vγ9 TCR chains and are intrinsically reactive to malaria due to their activation by low-molecular weight phosphoantigens produced by the plasmodium apicoplast. Vδ2 T cells inhibit replication of blood-stage parasites in vitro by the release of cytotoxic granules containing granulysin. Chronic exposure to malaria is associated with a decline in both the frequency of Vδ2 T cells and their ability to produce pro-inflammatory cytokines in response to P. falciparum antigen. However, a subset of Vδ2 T cells expresses the Fc receptor CD16/FcγRIIIa, which is markedly upregulated in the setting of frequent malaria exposure. We hypothesized that CD16/FcγRIIIa engagement might enable Vδ2 T cells to recognize malaria antigens in chronically malaria-experienced individuals, in cooperation with the humoral immune response. We found that CD16+ Vδ2 T cells adopt a cytotoxic phenotype and acquire the ability to respond independent of the TCR through engagement of CD16. We also found that CD16+ Vδ2 T cells downregulate the TCR and become largely refractory to stimulation with malaria antigen alone, but are able to respond robustly to opsonized malaria antigen, resulting in the release of cytotoxic mediators and inflammatory cytokines. By harnessing the specificity of anti-malarial IgG, this second pathway of activation may enable Vδ2 T cells to mediate anti-parasite immunity in chronically malaria-exposed individuals.
'Owing to their plasticity , intrinsically disordered and multidomain proteins require descriptions based on multiple conformations , thus calling for techniques and analysis tools that are capable of dealing with conformational ensembles rather than a single protein structure . Here , we introduce DEER-PREdict , a software program to predict Double Electron-Electron Resonance distance distributions as well as Paramagnetic Relaxation Enhancement rates from ensembles of protein conformations . DEER-PREdict uses an established rotamer library approach to describe the paramagnetic probes which are bound covalently to the protein . DEER-PREdict has been designed to operate efficiently on large conformational ensembles , such as those generated by molecular dynamics simulation , to facilitate the validation or refinement of molecular models as well as the interpretation of experimental data . The performance and accuracy of the software is demonstrated with experimentally characterized protein systems: HIV-1 protease , T4 Lysozyme and Acyl-CoA-binding protein . DEER-PREdict is open source ( GPLv3 ) and available at github . com/KULL-Centre/DEERpredict and as a Python PyPI package pypi . org/project/DEERPREdict .'
'Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli ( ETEC ) is a major cause of diarrhea in children under the age of 5 in low-middle income countries ( LMICs ) . The lack of point of care diagnostic tools for routine ETEC diagnosis results in limited data regarding the actual burden and epidemiology in the endemic areas . We evaluated the performance of a novel Rapid LAMP based Diagnostic Test ( RLDT ) for detection of ETEC in stool as a point of care diagnostic assay in a resource-limited setting . We conducted a cross-sectional study of 324 randomly selected stool samples from children under 5 presenting with moderate to severe diarrhea ( MSD ) . The samples were collected between November 2012 to September 2013 at selected health facilities in Zambia . The RLDT was evaluated by targeting three ETEC toxin genes [heat labile toxin ( LT ) and heat stable toxins ( STh and STp ) ] . Quantitative PCR was used as the “gold standard” to evaluate the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of RLDT for detection of ETEC . We additionally described the prevalence and seasonality of ETEC . The study included 324 participants , 50 . 6% of which were female . The overall prevalence of ETEC was 19 . 8% by qPCR and 19 . 4% by RLDT . The children between 12 to 59 months had the highest prevalence of 22% . The study determined ETEC toxin distribution was LT 28/321 ( 9% ) , ST 18/321 ( 6% ) and LT/ST 16/321 ( 5% ) . The sensitivity and specificity of the RLDT compared to qPCR using a Ct 35 as the cut-off , were 90 . 7% and 97 . 5% for LT , 85 . 2% and 99 . 3% for STh and 100% and 99 . 7% for STp , respectively . The results of this study suggest that RLDT is sufficiently sensitive and specific and easy to implement in the endemic countries . Being rapid and simple , the RLDT also presents as an attractive tool for point-of-care testing at the health facilities and laboratories in the resource-limited settings .',
'Longitudinal intervention studies with repeated measurements over time are an important type of experimental design in biomedical research . These studies generate increasingly multivariate outcome data due to the advent of “omics”-sciences ( genomics , transcriptomics , proteomics , metabolomics ) . Analysis of such data must take both the longitudinal intervention structure and multivariate nature of the data into account . The ASCA+-framework combines general linear models with principal component analysis and can be used to separate and visualize the multivariate effect of different experimental factors . However , this methodology has not yet been developed for the more complex designs often found in longitudinal intervention studies , which may be unbalanced , involve randomized interventions , and have substantial missing data . Here we describe a new methodology , repeated measures ASCA+ ( RM-ASCA+ ) , and show how it can be used to model metabolic changes over time , and compare metabolic changes between groups , in both randomized and non-randomized intervention studies . Tools for both visualization and model validation are discussed . This approach can facilitate easier interpretation of data from longitudinal clinical trials with multivariate outcomes .'
 'This study proposes a novel approach to model the time evolution of disease phenotypes using a reaction network as a microscopic model for the progress of disease states. The model is based on a probabilistic model of signs and diseases, and a stochastic model of disease evolution. The model is used to investigate the time dependence of the diagnostic performance with a simple probabilistic model of signs and diseases. The results show that the accuracy of diagnosis improves with time as the reaction network deviates from the healthy state of maximum objective function. This information can be used to suggest an optimal intervention or screening time for specific diseases and diagnostic models.'
 'The relationship between the transmission of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 ( SARS-CoV-2 ) and the amount of virus present in the proximity of a susceptible host is not well understood. Here, we developed a within-host and aerosol mathematical model and used it to determine the relationship between viral kinetics in the upper respiratory track, viral kinetics in the aerosols, and new transmissions in golden hamsters challenged with SARS-CoV-2. We found that infectious virus shedding early in infection correlates with transmission events, shedding of infectious virus diminishes late in the infection, and high viral RNA levels late in the infection are a poor indicator of transmission. We also showed that viral infectiousness increases in a density-dependent manner with viral RNA and that their relative ratio is time-dependent. These findings are useful for designing interventions.'
'Quantifying the overlap between two groups, sets, or communities is a problem in many fields including genetics, ecology, and computer science. When the two communities are fully known, one can simply count the size of their intersection. However, when populations are only partially observed, due to a subsampling or stochastic sampling process, the community overlap problem becomes one of inference. In ecology, the relationship between the diversity in one community and another is called β-diversity, an idea which has led to the creation of numerous indices and coefficients which seek to quantify it. However, these coefficients, as well as alternatives, have been shown to be biased when community sampling is incomplete. To address these issues, improvements in the quantification of β-diversity have been made in various ways. One direction of development recognizes that the measurement of β-diversity from the presence and absence of species fundamentally relies on counting the species shared by the two communities in the context of the numbers of species in each community separately, thus cataloguing the myriad ways in which these three integers might be reasonably combined, depending on the circumstances. Another set of developments has been to work with species abundance data instead of binary presence-absence measurements. A third set of developments has been to place observations of both abundance and presence-absence in the context of a probabilistic sampling process, allowing for the appropriate quantification of uncertainty through confidence intervals or credible intervals. One key feature of the β-diversity measures that quantify uncertainty is that the assumptions of their underlying statistical models must be stated explicitly. In recent work, a Bayesian approach to β-diversity estimation was introduced which provides unbiased estimates of the overlap between two stochastically sampled communities, yet this approach assumes that the two original community sizes are known a priori. In practice, however, overall community sizes may be unknown, or may vary widely, making this model and others like it misspecified from the outset to an unknown degree. Here we address this problem by leveraging an additional and often available source of data in presence-absence studies: the total number of independent samples taken from each community, i.e., the sampling depth or effort. Building on the same intuition as the estimation of total species from a species accumulation curve, we introduce a model for β-diversity calculations which produces joint estimates of s, Ra, and Rb in a Bayesian statistical framework. Posterior samples of these quantities offer solutions to issues identified above by providing unbiased central estimates, the quantification of uncertainty via credible intervals, and the construction of Bayesian versions of the canonical Jaccard and Sorenson-Dice coefficients (as well as 20 others which are based on s, Ra, and Rb [5]). Although estimating pairwise similarity is a problem in many fields, here we present the problem in the context of estimating the genetic similarity between pairs of malaria parasites from the species Plasmodium falciparum—the most virulent of the human malaria parasites. Because terminology varies by context, in the remainder of this manuscript we use the terms community, set, and repertoire to refer to the same fundamental thing: the total number of unique species, objects, or genes, respectively, in a group of interest. Our goal in all contexts will be to estimate the number of shared species, objects, or genes, and to simultaneously estimate the sizes of each of the two communities, sets, or repertoires being compared.'
'Chagas disease ( CD ) is a parasitic disease caused by the protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi . It is estimated that about 100 million people are at risk of being infected with T . cruzi , in the region , and that there are about 8 to 10 million already infected; with 30 , 000 new cases per year due to all forms of transmission . In addition , the international migration has caused infected individuals from Latin America to migrate all over the world , which now makes the disease a problem for the global health systems . CD has two forms: acute and chronic . The acute phase is usually asymptomatic or can present as a nonspecific , self-limited febrile syndrome that resolves in approximately 90 % of untreated infected individuals . On the other hand , in its chronic phase , around 60% to 70% of patients do not present any apparent symptoms; 30% of the subjects develop cardiomyopathies with a clinical variety , including arrhythmias , aneurysms , dilated cardiomyopathy , and sudden death . It is essential and important to diagnose T . cruzi infection using laboratory tests in order to prescribe the best treatment and , this way , stop the progression of the disease and prevent its transmission . However , one limitation is the complexity of the diagnostic process , which is sometimes hampered by the lack of a reference standards , by the availability of multiple types of assays with different sensitivity and specificity values , and by the great difficulty of detecting the parasite in the chronic phase of the disease . The World Health Organization ( WHO ) recommends using two conventional tests for diagnosing chronic CD , based on different principles and the detection of different antigens . Furthermore , in the case of ambiguous or inconclusive results , a third technique should be used . Thus , serological tests , such as indirect immunofluorescence , indirect hemagglutination , enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) , and immunochromatographic tests or rapid diagnostic tests ( RDT ) are used . They can be qualitative or semi-quantitative , based on different antigens; some use a multi-epitope antigen and others use a combination of recombinant proteins . The purpose of this study was to summarize the evidence available on the diagnostic validity of ELISA and immunochromatographic tests ( RDT ) in individuals with suspected diagnose of chronic CD .'
 'Dopamine (DA) is a neurotransmitter that plays a crucial role in various cognitive and behavioral functions. DA is released from neurons into the extracellular space, where it can bind to receptors on neighboring neurons. However, the exact mechanisms of DA transmission are not fully understood. In this study, we developed a new computational model that considers the release, diffusion, and uptake of DA. Our model incorporates the geometry of the synaptic cleft, which is the space between two neurons where DA is released. We found that DAT uptake is strongly limited near the synaptic cleft, which has important implications for DA transmission. We also examined the temporal and spatial variability of tonic DA concentration in extra-synaptic space. Our results suggest that tonic DA concentration is highly variable and that this variability may be important for cognitive and behavioral functions. Our model provides a new tool for understanding the complex mechanisms of DA transmission and may help to explain discrepancies across empirical findings.'
 'Ticks are long-lived, reproductively prolific, and can utilize a variety of hosts. During the blood-sucking process, tick salivary glands secrete a variety of biologically-active molecules that reduce host pain and itching, inhibit blood coagulation, and disturb the innate and adaptive immune responses. These molecules contribute to the spread, survival, and reproduction of TBPs. Tick salivary glands rapidly degenerate several days post engorgement, which may be caused by the increased concentration of ecdysone in the hemolymph during the fast feeding period and both autophagy and apoptosis occur. In this work, we first proved autophagy-related gene (ATG) and caspase gene expression peaks during degeneration of the tick salivary glands. We explored the regulatory role of Rhipicephalus haemaphysaloides autophagy-related 5 (RhATG5) in the degeneration of tick salivary glands. During the fast feeding phase, RhATG5 was cleaved and both calcium concentration and the transcription of Rhcalpains increased in the salivary glands. Recombinant RhATG5 was cleaved by μ-calpain only in the presence of calcium; the mutant RhATG5191-199Δ was not cleaved. Treatment with 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E) led to programmed cell death in the salivary glands of unfed ticks in vitro, RhATG8-phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) was upregulated in ticks treated with low concentration of 20E. Conversely, RhATG8-PE decreased and Rhcaspase-7 increased in ticks treated with a high concentration of 20E and transformed autophagy to apoptosis. High concentrations of 20E led to the cleavage of RhATG5. Calcium concentration and expression of Rhcalpains were also upregulated in the tick salivary glands. RNA interference (RNAi) of RhATG5 in vitro inhibited both autophagy and apoptosis of the tick salivary glands. RNAi of RhATG5 in vivo significantly inhibited the normal feeding process. These results demonstrated that high concentrations of 20E led to the cleavage of RhATG5 by increasing the concentration of calcium and stimulated the transition from autophagy to apoptosis. '
'Yellow fever ( YF ) is a zoonotic disease caused by the yellow fever virus ( YFV ) that infects both humans and non-human primates ( NHPs ). In South America, YFV transmission occurs in two cycles, the sylvatic and urban. In the sylvatic cycle, transmission is maintained by sylvatic mosquito species of the Haemogogus and Sabethes genera between NHPs, with humans considered incidental hosts. In the urban cycle, transmission is maintained by domestic Aedes aegypti mosquitoes. In South America, the sylvatic cycle has historically been confined to Amazonian regions, but over the past 20 years, the area where YF is endemic in NHPs has seen rapid geographic expansion. In Brazil, this has resulted in 5 reassessments of the zone of YF endemicity since 2000, with the latest update in 2018 including the entire country. The reasons for this expansion are unknown. Furthermore, outbreaks in Brazil’s South-East Atlantic forest in 2016–2017 and 2017–2018 have been the largest ever recorded in the country, in humans and NHPs, with cases reported in states that have never previously recorded YF. While there is no evidence of urban transmission in these outbreaks, confirmed human and NHP cases in the vicinity of Brazil’s largest cities—areas with high Aedes aegypti density—is a cause for concern. In addition to a lack of understanding of these interannual drivers of transmission, there is a general dearth of understanding of the seasonality of YF. Despite the seasonality of YF having long been well established, there has been little research on quantifying the associated environmental and climatic drivers of seasonality in South America. In this study, we investigated the drivers of YF transmission both intra and interannually, using temporally varying covariates related to climate, land-cover, vegetation, and human and NHP demographics. Covariates related to these were selected based on their previously demonstrated roles in vector-biology, increased suitability for disease transmission, or relationships with YF. By utilising two model structures, we investigated the differential drivers of seasonal and interannual variation in YF incidence. These models were fit to the number of months reporting YF at each administrative level 1 geographic unit (for example, the province or state), using exhaustive model fitting in hierarchical negative-binomial regressions. The best performing models, as defined by the Akaike Information Criterion (AIC), were weighted and combined using Akaike weights to produce an ensemble model. Model robustness was confirmed using spatial block bootstrapping. Our models explain much of the spatiotemporal variation in YF in South America, both seasonally and across the period 2003–2016. Vegetation type (EVI), heterogeneity in vegetation (perhaps a proxy for habitat fragmentation), and land cover explain much of the trends in YF transmission seen. These findings may help understand the recent expansions of the YF endemic zone, as well as the highly seasonal nature of YF.
 'Obsessive-compulsive disorder ( OCD ) is a mental health condition characterized by intrusive thoughts ( obsessions ) and repetitive behaviors ( compulsions ) . Pavlovian cues ( associations between and rewarding or punishing outcomes learned via classical conditioning mechanisms ) can affect instrumental behavior through Pavlovian-instrumental transfer ( PIT ) . In this study, we investigated the cognitive and computational mechanisms underlying Pavlovian biases on instrumental behavior in both clinical OCD patients and healthy controls using a Pavlovian-Instrumental Transfer ( PIT ) task . Behavioral and computational results indicated a weaker Pavlovian influence on instrumental behavior in OCD patients than in healthy controls, especially for negative Pavlovian cues. Our results suggest that impairment in using contextual information provided by the cues to appropriately adjust behavior may be a reason for the reduced PIT in OCD. This study provides deeper insight into our understanding of deficits in OCD from the perspective of Pavlovian influences on instrumental behavior and may have implications for OCD treatment modalities focused on reducing compulsive behaviors.'
The Pan pathway is a crucial metabolic pathway for the survival of parasites. The Pan pathway is involved in the synthesis of coenzyme A (CoA), which is an essential cofactor for many metabolic reactions. The Pan pathway is conserved across different species of parasites, including Plasmodium and Toxoplasma. The Pan pathway is a potential target for drug development against parasites. The pathway is composed of several enzymes, including PanK, PanAx, PanD, PanE, and PanF. These enzymes are involved in the synthesis of Pan from pantothenic acid. The Pan pathway is essential for the survival of parasites, and inhibition of the pathway can lead to the death of the parasites. The Pan pathway is a potential target for drug development against parasites. The pathway is composed of several enzymes, including PanK, PanAx, PanD, PanE, and PanF. These enzymes are involved in the synthesis of Pan from pantothenic acid. The Pan pathway is essential for the survival of parasites, and inhibition of the pathway can lead to the death of the parasites.
'Membrane proteins are responsible for the substance transport and signal transduction across cell membranes, and are essential for life. However, the structural and functional features of membrane proteins are different from those of soluble proteins, and the unique property of membrane proteins is that a significant fraction of their amino acids is exposed to the hydrophobic core of lipid bilayers rather than being embedded in the protein interior. In this study, we propose a new characteristic quantity, the membrane contact probability (MCP), to describe the likelihood of the amino acids of a given sequence being in direct contact with the acyl chains of lipid molecules. We show that MCP is complementary to solvent accessibility in characterizing the outer surface of membrane proteins, and can be predicted for any given sequence with a machine learning-based method by utilizing a training dataset extracted from MemProtMD, a database generated from molecular dynamics simulations for the membrane proteins with a known structure. As the first of many potential applications, we demonstrate that MCP can be used to systematically improve the prediction precision of the protein contact maps and structures. Our work provides a new and essential property of membrane proteins that can be predicted and used for broad applications such as the contact map and structure prediction of membrane proteins.'
 'The COVID-19 pandemic has been managed through various non-pharmaceutical interventions, but it is difficult to predict which of these are the most effective for a given population. We developed a computationally efficient and scalable agent-based microsimulation framework called PanSim, which allows us to test control measures in multiple infection waves caused by the spread of a new virus variant in a city-sized societal environment using a unified framework fitted to realistic data. We found that vaccination strategies prioritising occupational risk groups minimise the number of infections but allow higher mortality while prioritising vulnerable groups minimises mortality but implies an increased infection rate. We also found that intensive vaccination along with non-pharmaceutical interventions can substantially suppress the spread of the virus, while low levels of vaccination, premature reopening may easily revert the epidemic to an uncontrolled state. Our analysis highlights that while vaccination protects the elderly from COVID-19, a large percentage of children will contract the virus, and we also show the benefits and limitations of various quarantine and testing scenarios. The uniquely detailed spatio-temporal resolution of PanSim allows the design and testing of complex, specifically targeted interventions with a large number of agents under dynamically changing conditions.'
 'Undernutrition is a major public health problem worldwide, particularly in low- and middle-income countries ( LMICs ). Wasting, an indicator of acute malnutrition, is defined as weight-for-height standard deviation z score ( WHZ ) <-2, and affects 7.3% of children under age five. Severe acute malnutrition ( SAM ) is defined as WHZ <-3, mid-upper arm circumference <11.5 cm among 6-59-month olds, or the presence of nutritionally-induced bilateral pitting edema. Poor linear growth is a reflection of chronic undernutrition. Stunting, defined as height-for-age z score ( HAZ ) <-2, is used to indicate the prevalence of the problem at the population level. Environmental enteric dysfunction ( EED ) is a poorly understood condition that has been variably termed tropical enteropathy or environmental enteropathy, and is characterized by small intestinal villous blunting. EED is highly prevalent among children in LMICs, and is associated with poor linear growth. A major limitation to understanding the etiopathogenesis of EED is the lack of a comprehensive, reproducible histologic framework for characterizing the small bowel lesions. In this study, we hypothesized that the development of such a system will identify unique histology features for EED, and that some features might correlate with clinical severity. We constructed a semi-quantitative scoring index composed of 11 parameters encompassing tissue injury and response patterns commonly observed in routine clinical practice. Three gastrointestinal pathologists then read whole slide images of duodenal biopsies using the EED histology index, and inter-observer reliability was assessed. The histology index was further used to identify within- and between-child variations as well as features common across and unique to each cohort, and those that correlated with host phenotype. Eight of the 11 histologic scoring parameters showed useful degrees of variation. The overall concordance across all parameters was 96% weighted agreement, kappa 0.70, and Gwet’s AC 0.93. Zambian and Pakistani tissues shared some histologic features with gluten sensitive enteropathy ( GSE ), but most features were distinct, particularly abundance of intraepithelial lymphocytes in the Pakistani cohort, and marked villous destruction and loss of secretory cell lineages in the Zambian cohort. We propose the first EED histology index for interpreting duodenal biopsies. This index should be useful in future clinical and translational studies of this widespread, poorly understood, and highly consequential disorder, which might be caused by multiple contributing processes, in different regions of the world.'
 'Transparent games' are a new game-theoretic setting where each player has a certain probability of observing the partner's choice before deciding on its own action. This setting is more realistic than the classic game-theoretic settings of simultaneous and sequential games, where players act either strictly sequentially or strictly simultaneously without knowing each other's current choices. The new setting allows for the study of how action visibility affects the evolution of successful strategies in iterated coordination and prisoner's dilemma games. The results show that even a small probability of seeing the partner's choice before one's own decision substantially changes the evolutionary successful strategies. Action visibility enhances cooperation in an iterated coordination game, but reduces cooperation in a more competitive iterated prisoner's dilemma. The results have implications for studies of human and animal social behavior, especially for the analysis of dyadic and group interactions.
 ' Telomeres are repetitive DNA sequences at the ends of chromosomes that protect them from degradation and fusion. However, with each cell division, telomeres shorten until they reach a critical length, triggering a crisis that can lead to cell death or the activation of a telomere maintenance mechanism (TMM). Most cancers use telomerase, an enzyme that adds new telomere repeats to the ends of chromosomes, as their TMM. However, about 15% of cancers do not express telomerase and instead use an alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT) mechanism. ALT is characterized by extreme telomere length heterogeneity and an absence of telomerase activity. In this study, the authors investigated the initiation of ALT in human fibroblasts and epithelial cancer cells that lack the Alpha Thalassemia/Mental Retardation Syndrome X-Linked (ATRX) gene. They found that the loss of ATRX combined with telomere dysfunction during crisis induced the ALT pathway in fibroblasts, which conferred replicative immortality. In epithelial cancer cells, the loss of ATRX combined with telomere dysfunction during crisis induced an ALT-like pathway, which was transient and ultimately led to telomere erosion. The authors also found that telomeres in ALT cells were enriched in variant repeat types, which appeared to be cell-line specific. These findings provide insights into the mechanism of ALT and suggest that the loss of ATRX is a critical factor in the initiation of ALT in human cells.'
 'Toxoplasma gondii is a parasite that infects humans and other animals. It has a complex life cycle that involves different stages of development and different types of cells. The parasite is able to survive and replicate inside host cells by secreting various proteins that help it to evade the host's immune system and manipulate the host cell's metabolism. In this study, the authors investigated the role of a small GTPase called Rab11A in the secretion of these proteins. They found that Rab11A is essential for the secretion of dense granules, which are vesicles that contain proteins that help the parasite to survive and replicate inside the host cell. The authors also found that Rab11A is involved in the transport of transmembrane proteins to the parasite's surface, which helps the parasite to adhere to and move inside host cells. Overall, the study provides new insights into the mechanisms of parasite secretion and host cell invasion, which could lead to the development of new drugs to treat toxoplasmosis.'
 'The stimulation of a single neuron in the rat somatosensory cortex can elicit a behavioral response . The probability of a behavioral response does not depend appreciably on the duration or intensity of a constant stimulation , whereas the response probability increases significantly upon injection of an irregular current . Biological mechanisms that can potentially suppress a constant input signal are present in the dynamics of both neurons and synapses and seem ideal candidates to explain these experimental findings . Here , we study a large network of integrate-and-fire neurons with several salient features of neuronal populations in the rat barrel cortex . The model includes cellular spike-frequency adaptation , experimentally constrained numbers and types of chemical synapses endowed with short-term plasticity , and gap junctions . Numerical simulations of this model indicate that cellular and synaptic adaptation mechanisms alone may not suffice to account for the experimental results if the local network activity is read out by an integrator . However , a circuit that approximates a differentiator can detect the single-cell stimulation with a reliability that barely depends on the length or intensity of the stimulus , but that increases when an irregular signal is used . This finding is in accordance with the experimental results obtained for the stimulation of a regularly-spiking excitatory cell .'
 'Human skin is exposed to a variety of DNA-damaging agents, including UV radiation, which can lead to the accumulation of somatic mutations over a person's lifetime. In this study, the authors sequenced the genomes of single-cell derived clonal lineages from primary skin cells of a large cohort of healthy individuals across a wide range of ages. They report a comprehensive view of the various somatic genome changes that accumulate in skin cells, including UV-induced base substitutions, insertions and deletions, and rearrangements. The authors also demonstrate that endogenous DNA damage and errors during DNA replication are significant sources of somatic mutations in skin cells. They show that UV-induced mutations are prevalent even in sun-shielded skin cells and manifest as single base substitutions arising from DNA synthesis over lesions by translesion synthesis and by deletions of five or more nucleotides arising from end-joining repair of UV-induced double-strand breaks. The authors highlight the differences in the outcomes of UV-induced double-strand breaks and double-strand breaks induced by endogenous DNA damage in cancer-free skin cells. Overall, the study provides a comprehensive analysis of the various UV-induced and endogenous genome de-stabilizing processes that operate in healthy skin cells.'
 'Clonorchiasis is a neglected tropical disease caused by the fish-borne trematode Clonorchis sinensis . In Vietnam, the prevalence of C . sinensis infection is high, with a range of 0.2% to 37.5% . However, few studies have investigated risk factors associated with C . sinensis infection in Vietnam. In this study, the prevalence of C . sinensis infection was 40.4%, with a range of 26.5% to 53.3% in four communes in northern Vietnam. Males, recent consumption of raw fish, low education level, lack of treatment, being between 19 to 39 years old, and the presence of an unhygienic toilet were significantly associated with C . sinensis infection. This study demonstrated a high prevalence of C . sinensis infection in rural communities in northern Vietnam. Thus, control measures including mass drug administration for those communes should be applied to reduce the prevalence. Moreover, specific health education activities should be developed for risk groups in C . sinensis endemic areas.'
 'This study aimed to assess the occurrence and risk factors of skin infections among rural schoolchildren in southern Ethiopia by combining a frequentist and Bayesian approach . Using three-stage random sampling, we assessed 864 schoolchildren aged 7–14 years from the Wonago district in southern Ethiopia . We detected potential risk factors for scabies, tungiasis, and tinea infections and recorded their hygienic practices and socio-demographic information . The frequentist model revealed a clustering effect of 8.8% at the classroom level and an insignificant effect at the school level . The Bayesian model revealed a clustering effect of 16% at the classroom level and 5.3% at the school level . Almost three-fourths of the sample had at least one type of skin problem, and boys were at higher overall risk than girls ( adjusted odds ratio [aOR] 1.55 [95% Bayesian credible interval [BCI] 1.01, 2.28] ). Risk factors included unclean fingernails (aOR 1.85 [95% BCI 1.08, 2.97]), not washing the body (aOR 1.90 [95% BCI 1.21, 2.85]), and hair with soap every week (aOR 3.07 [95% BCI 1.98, 4.57]). Washing legs and feet with soap daily was identified as a protective factor for each of the three skin diseases (aOR 0.23 [95% BCI 0.15, 0.33]). We observed high variation in skin problems at the classroom level, indicating the presence of shared risk factors in these locations. The findings suggest the need to improve children’s personal hygiene via health education by schoolteachers and health workers.'
 'Mycobacteria are a group of bacteria that cause a variety of diseases in humans and animals, including tuberculosis and leprosy. These bacteria are able to survive and replicate within host cells, such as macrophages and neutrophils, by manipulating host immune signaling pathways. MicroRNA (miRNA) are small non-coding RNA molecules that can regulate gene expression by binding to target mRNA and either degrading or suppressing their translation. miRNA have been shown to be differentially expressed in mycobacterial infections and have been suggested as biomarkers for disease. In this study, the authors used the zebrafish-Mycobacterium marinum model to investigate the role of miR-206 in mycobacterial infection and the impact on host gene expression and neutrophil recruitment. They found that miR-206 is upregulated following infection and that antagomir-mediated knockdown of miR-206 is protective against infection. The authors also observed enhanced recruitment of neutrophils to sites of infection in miR-206 knockdown zebrafish embryos and live imaging revealed reduced bacterial burden caused by miR-206 knockdown was dependent on the Cxcl12/Cxcr4 signaling axis. Together, these data suggest that miR-206 plays a key role in mycobacterial infection by suppressing the Cxcl12/Cxcr4 signaling axis and preventing protective neutrophil recruitment to granulomas.'
 'The growth and maintenance of tissues are regulated by complex interactions between cells. To understand these interactions, researchers have used live imaging and cell tracking to analyze the behavior of cells in tissues. However, extracting and comparing the rules of cell interactions across different tissues is challenging due to the complexity of the data. In this study, the authors propose a graph neural network (GNN) model that can be used to predict cell fate and extract cell interaction rules from live imaging data. The authors demonstrate the effectiveness of the GNN model by analyzing the mouse hind paw epidermis and mouse ear epidermis. They find distinct neighbor cell fate coordination rules that depend on the region of the body. The authors also show that the GNN model can be used to analyze numerical simulations of the epidermis, further validating its effectiveness. Overall, the study demonstrates the utility of GNN models in analyzing the complex interactions between cells in tissues.'
 'MicroRNAs ( miRNAs or miRs ) are small non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression during post-transcriptional processes . Dysregulation of miRNAs has been implicated in the initiation and progression of cancer . In this study, we present a tensor sparse canonical correlation analysis ( TSCCA ) method for identifying cancer-related miRNA-gene modules across multiple cancers . TSCCA is able to overcome the drawbacks of existing solutions and capture both the cancer-shared and specific miRNA-gene co-expressed modules with better biological interpretations . We comprehensively evaluate the performance of TSCCA using a set of simulated data and matched miRNA/gene expression data across 33 cancer types from the TCGA database . We uncover several dysfunctional miRNA-gene modules with important biological functions and statistical significance . These modules can advance our understanding of miRNA regulatory mechanisms of cancer and provide insights into miRNA-based treatments for cancer .'
'How short- and long-term plasticity interact to shape synaptic dynamics is an important question in neuroscience. We used a mathematical model to investigate how short- and long-term plasticity together control the induction of synaptic depression and potentiation. We found that short- and long-term plasticity are tuned together to adapt plasticity to area-specific activity statistics such as firing rates. Our findings suggest that short- and long-term plasticity mechanisms are intertwined and work together to shape synaptic dynamics.'
 'Bats are the natural reservoir host for several zoonotic viruses, including Hendra virus ( HeV ), which causes severe clinical disease in humans and other susceptible hosts . In this study, we examined the sites of HeV replication and the immune response of infected Australian black flying foxes and ferrets at 12, 36, and 60 hours post exposure ( hpe ). Viral antigen was detected at 60 hpe in bats and was confined to the lungs, whereas in ferrets there was evidence of widespread viral RNA and antigen by 60 hpe. The mRNA expression of IFNs revealed antagonism of type I and III IFNs and a significant increase in the chemokine, CXCL10, in bat lung and spleen following infection. In ferrets, there was an increase in the transcription of IFN in the spleen following infection. Liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry ( LC-MS/MS ) on lung tissue from bats and ferrets was performed at 0 and 60 hpe to obtain a global overview of viral and host protein expression. Gene Ontology ( GO ) enrichment analysis of immune pathways revealed that six pathways, including a number involved in cell mediated immunity, were more likely to be upregulated in bat lung compared to ferrets. GO analysis also revealed enrichment of the type I IFN signaling pathway in bats and ferrets. This study contributes important comparative data on differences in the dissemination of HeV and the first to provide comparative data on the activation of immune pathways in bats and ferrets in vivo following infection. '
 'This study presents a new method called CLiP (Correlated Liability Predictors) to detect heterogeneity in single GWAS cohorts. The method calculates a weighted sum of correlations between SNPs contributing to a PRS on the case/control liability scale. The authors demonstrate mathematically and through simulation that among i . i . d . homogeneous cases generated by a liability threshold model, significant anti-correlations are expected between otherwise independent predictors due to ascertainment on the hidden liability score. In the presence of heterogeneity from distinct etiologies, confounding by covariates, or mislabeling, these correlation patterns are altered predictably. The authors further extend their method to two additional association study designs: CLiP-X for quantitative predictors in applications such as transcriptome-wide association, and CLiP-Y for quantitative phenotypes, where there is no clear distinction between cases and controls. Through simulations, the authors demonstrate that CLiP and its extensions reliably distinguish between homogeneous and heterogeneous cohorts when the PRS explains as low as 3% of variance on the liability scale and cohorts comprise 50 , 000 − 100 , 000 samples, an increasingly practical size for modern GWAS. The authors apply CLiP to heterogeneity detection in schizophrenia cohorts totaling > 50 , 000 cases and controls collected by the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium. They observe significant heterogeneity in mega-analysis of the combined PGC data (p-value 8.54 × 10−4) and in individual cohorts meta-analyzed using Fisher’s method (p-value 0.03). The authors also apply CLiP-Y to detect heterogeneity in neuroticism in over 10,000 individuals from the UK Biobank and detect heterogeneity with a p-value of 1.68 × 10−9. Scores were not significantly reduced when partitioning by known subclusters, suggesting that these factors are not the primary source of observed heterogeneity. The authors conclude that CLiP and its extensions provide a powerful tool for detecting heterogeneity in single GWAS cohorts and have important implications for the development of personalized medicine and precision psychiatry.'
'Cell culture remains the gold standard for primary isolation of viruses in clinical specimens . However, the current practice requires researchers to recognize cytopathic effects (CPE) induced by virus infection and subsequently use virus-specific monoclonal antibody to confirm the presence of virus . Considering the broad applications of neural network in various fields, we aimed to utilize convolutional neural networks (CNN) to shorten the timing required for CPE identification and to improve the assay sensitivity . Based on the characteristics of influenza-induced CPE, a CNN model with larger sizes of filters and max-pooling kernels was constructed in the absence of transfer learning. A total of 601 images from mock-infected and influenza-infected MDCK cells were used to train the model. The performance of the model was tested by using extra 400 images and the percentage of correct recognition was 99.75%. To further examine the limit of our model in evaluating the changes of CPE overtime, additional 1190 images from a new experiment were used and the recognition rates at 16 hour (hr), 28 hr, and 40 hr post virus infection were 71.80%, 98.25%, and 87.46%, respectively. The specificity of our model, examined by images of MDCK cells infected by six other non-influenza viruses, was 100%. Hence, a simple CNN model was established to enhance the identification of influenza virus in clinical practice.'
 'Herpesviruses are known to encode a number of inhibitors of host cell death, including RIP Homotypic Interaction Motif ( RHIM ) -containing proteins. Varicella zoster virus ( VZV ) is a member of the alphaherpesvirus subfamily and is responsible for causing chickenpox and shingles. We have identified a novel viral RHIM in the VZV capsid triplex protein, open reading frame ( ORF ) 20, that acts as a host cell death inhibitor. Like the human cellular RHIMs in RIPK1 and RIPK3 that stabilise the necrosome in TNF-induced necroptosis, and the viral RHIM in M45 from murine cytomegalovirus that inhibits cell death, the ORF20 RHIM is capable of forming fibrillar functional amyloid complexes. Notably, the ORF20 RHIM forms hybrid amyloid complexes with human ZBP1, a cytoplasmic sensor of viral nucleic acid. Although VZV can inhibit TNF-induced necroptosis, the ORF20 RHIM does not appear to be responsible for this inhibition. In contrast, the ZBP1 pathway is identified as important for VZV infection. Mutation of the ORF20 RHIM renders the virus incapable of efficient spread in ZBP1-expressing HT-29 cells, an effect which can be reversed by the inhibition of caspases. Therefore we conclude that the VZV ORF20 RHIM is important for preventing ZBP1-driven apoptosis during VZV infection, and propose that it mediates this effect by sequestering ZBP1 into decoy amyloid assemblies. '
 'Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease that affects over 200 million people worldwide. The disease is caused by parasitic worms that infect people through contact with contaminated water. The risk of schistosomiasis is determined by three factors: exposure to water, the hazard of snails and parasites in the water, and vulnerability of the population. We aimed to quantify the contributions of exposure, hazard, and vulnerability to the presence and intensity of Schistosoma haematobium infection in 13 villages along the Senegal River. We found that hazard was the most important component of infection presence, followed by vulnerability. Exposure was the most important component of infection intensity, followed by hazard. Our findings highlight the importance of implementing both social and environmental interventions to complement mass drug administration in schistosomiasis control and elimination efforts. '
 'Lassa fever (LF) is a hemorrhagic fever caused by the Lassa virus (LASV) and is endemic in West Africa. In 2018, Nigeria experienced a large outbreak of LF with over 3498 suspected and 633 confirmed positive cases. The study aimed to genetically characterize five recent LASV isolates collected from the 2018 outbreak in Nigeria. Three of the isolates were further evaluated in vivo and despite being closely related and from the same spatial/geographic region of Nigeria, only one of the three isolates proved lethal in strain 13 guinea pigs and non-human primates (NHP). Additionally, this isolate exhibited atypical pathogenesis characteristics in the NHP model, most notably respiratory failure, not commonly described in hemorrhagic cases of LF. These results suggest that there is considerable phenotypic heterogeneity in LASV infections in Nigeria, which leads to a multitude of pathogenesis characteristics that could account for differences between subclinical and lethal LF infections. The development of disease models using currently circulating LASV strains in West Africa are critical for the evaluation of potential vaccines and medical countermeasures.'
 'This study aimed to evaluate the hematological and biochemical changes in S . mansoni infected adult patients compared to apparently healthy controls. The study was conducted at Haik Primary Hospital in Haik town, North-East Ethiopia. One hundred and eighty study participants consisting of 90 S . mansoni infected patients and 90 apparently healthy controls were recruited using systematic random sampling method. The study found significantly lower mean values of Hgb , RBC , MCHC , total protein ( TP ) , total cholesterol ( TC ) , and total WBC count among S . mansoni infected patients compared to healthy controls. On the other hand, this study found an elevated values of AST and ALT among S . mansoni infected patients. The findings of this study showed significantly altered hematological values and liver function tests among S . mansoni infected patients compared to apparently healthy controls. Therefore, screening of S . mansoni infected patients for various hematological and biochemical parameters and providing treatment to the underlying abnormalities is very crucial to avoid schistosomiasis associated morbidity and mortality. '
 'The hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) is a major cause of liver disease and death worldwide. While some people infected with HCV clear the virus spontaneously, many others develop chronic infections that can lead to liver failure and cancer. The development of a vaccine against HCV is a major goal, but the mechanisms underlying the immune response to HCV infection are not well understood. In this study, the authors used flow cytometry to analyze the immune response to HCV in 29 people infected with the virus. They found that the frequency of a specific type of B cell, called an activated memory B cell, was lower in people with chronic infections than in people who had cleared the virus spontaneously. They also found that the expression of certain proteins on the surface of these B cells was different in people with chronic infections. These findings suggest that the immune response to HCV infection may be impaired in some people, which could make it more difficult to develop an effective vaccine. Further research is needed to understand the mechanisms underlying the immune response to HCV infection and to develop effective vaccines.'
