 'To understand how the brain develops, scientists have been studying the activity of neurons in the brain of developing animals. They found that the brain of newborn mice has a different way of working than the brain of adult mice. The newborn brain has periods of low activity, but it also has periods of high activity. The high activity periods are characterized by spindle-like oscillations that happen in the cortex, a part of the brain. These spindle-like oscillations are important for the development of the brain, but they disappear as the brain gets older. The disappearance of these oscillations is linked to the development of more complex ways of thinking and behaving. These findings suggest that the brain of newborn animals is different from the brain of adult animals, and that the differences are important for the development of the brain.'; Introduction: 'The brain is a complex network of interconnected neurons and synapses that communicate with each other to perform a wide range of functions . The development of these functions is a gradual process that begins in utero and continues throughout life . Understanding how the brain develops is critical for understanding how it functions in health and disease . To study this process , scientists have been using a variety of techniques, including imaging, electrophysiology, and genetics . In particular, electrophysiology has been used to study the activity of neurons and synapses in the brain of developing animals . However, the high spatial and temporal resolution required to study the activity of individual neurons and synapses in the brain of developing animals has been a major challenge . In this study, we used high-resolution electrophysiology to study the activity of neurons and synapses in the brain of developing mice and humans . We found that the brain of newborn mice has a different way of working than the brain of adult mice. The newborn brain has periods of low activity, but it also has periods of high activity. The high activity periods are characterized by spindle-like oscillations that happen in the cortex, a part of the brain. These spindle-like oscillations are important for the development of the brain, but they disappear as the brain gets older. The disappearance of these oscillations is linked to the development of more complex ways of thinking and behaving. These findings suggest that the brain of newborn animals is different from the brain of adult animals, and that the differences are important for the development of the brain.'; Abstract: 'To understand how the brain develops, scientists have been studying the activity of neurons in the brain of developing animals. They found that the brain of newborn mice has a different way of working than the brain of adult mice. The newborn brain has periods of low activity, but it also has periods of high activity. The high activity periods are characterized by spindle-like oscillations that happen in the cortex, a part of the brain. These spindle-like oscillations are important for the development of the brain, but they disappear as the brain gets older. The disappearance of these oscillations is linked to the development of more complex ways of thinking and behaving. These findings suggest that the brain of newborn animals is different from the brain of adult animals, and that the differences are important for the development of the brain.'; Introduction: 'The brain is a complex network of interconnected neurons and synapses that communicate with each other to perform a wide range of functions . The development of these functions is a gradual process that begins in utero and continues throughout life . Understanding how the brain develops is critical for understanding how it functions in health and disease . To study this process , scientists have been using a variety of techniques, including imaging, electrophysiology, and genetics . In particular, electrophysiology has been used to study the activity of neurons and synapses in the brain of developing animals . However, the high spatial and temporal resolution required to study the activity of individual neurons and synapses in the brain of developing animals has been a major challenge . In this study, we used high-resolution electrophysiology to study the activity of neurons and synapses in the brain of developing mice and humans . We found that the brain of newborn mice has a different way of working than the brain of adult mice. The newborn brain has periods of low activity, but it also has periods of high activity. The high activity periods are characterized by spindle-like oscillations that happen in the cortex, a part of the brain. These spindle-like oscillations are important for the development of the brain, but they disappear as the brain gets older. The disappearance of these oscillations is linked to the development of more complex ways of thinking and behaving. These findings suggest that the brain of newborn animals is different from the brain
 The study by Gonzalez et al. ( 2016 ) aimed to investigate the effects of dopamine on learning and memory in Parkinson’s disease patients. The study used a novel method to measure dopamine levels in the brain, called functional magnetic resonance imaging ( fMRI ). The study found that dopamine levels were lower in Parkinson’s disease patients than in healthy controls, and that dopamine levels were positively correlated with memory performance. The study also found that dopamine levels were negatively correlated with the number of errors made during learning. The study suggests that dopamine plays a role in learning and memory in Parkinson’s disease patients, and that dopamine levels may be a useful biomarker for predicting memory performance in these patients.
 The inositol 5-phosphatase OCRL is a protein that plays a critical role in the regulation of phosphoinositides, which are important signaling molecules in the cell. Mutations in OCRL cause Lowe syndrome and Dent's disease, which are X-linked disorders characterized by congenital cataracts, cognitive disabilities, and developmental delay. To better understand the function of OCRL, we performed a global analysis of its interactome using quantitative in vivo imaging. Our results revealed that OCRL directly binds to clathrin, a protein that is important for the formation of clathrin-coated pits, which are required for the initiation of clathrin-mediated endocytosis. We also found that OCRL binds to SNX9, a protein that is important for the uncoating of clathrin-coated pits. Using live cell imaging, we found that the absence of OCRL in patient cells impaired clathrin-mediated endocytosis, resulting in an accumulation of clathrin-coated vesicles that failed to uncoat. These findings suggest that OCRL plays a critical role in the uncoating of clathrin-coated pits, which is required for the efficient recycling of endocytic factors and the normal progression of clathrin-mediated endocytosis.
 Here, we present a novel approach to study the dynamics of morphogenesis in space and time. We show that a Drosphila FGF family protein, Bnl, is transported target-specifically from the source to the ASP through cytonemes and forms a long-range concentration gradient by dynamically adopting the recipient ASP-specific shapes and contours. We also demonstrate that Bnl functions as a morphogen and that a novel self-regulatory mechanism of cytoneme-mediated signaling by which the Bnl morphogen gradient forms is identified. These findings show an example of morphogenesis in which cytoneme-dependent signaling can provide precision and adaptability in shaping long-range positional gradients and tissue architectures in space and time.
 The genomes of living organisms consist of thousands of genes that produce proteins that perform many essential functions. Cells receive signals from both their internal and external environments and respond by changing how they express their genes. This allows a cell to make the right amount of different proteins when needed. The proteins that a cell produces can then, in turn, influence how the cell's genes are expressed. This set of interactions between genes and proteins is called a gene regulatory network, and is akin to a computer program that the cell runs to define its behavior. At present, we understand very little about why these networks take on the forms seen in living cells. A remarkable feature of living organisms is their ability to withstand an extremely wide variety of predicaments, such as DNA damage, physical trauma, or exposure to toxins. This ability, generally called robustness, requires a cell to rapidly activate different gene sets and maintain their activity for as long as necessary. However, very little is known about how cells are programmed to respond appropriately, whatever happens, and keep themselves in a stable state. In the future, an understanding of robustness could help efforts to design new drugs to treat a range of infections and diseases. Using data that is already available about gene regulatory networks in a wide selection of organisms ranging from bacteria to humans, we show that all known gene regulatory networks are wired up in a way that any quantitative change to the network will not cause the state of network to change. In addition, gene regulatory networks tend to remain stable even if new regulatory links are randomly added. We also find that the gene regulatory network of a cancer cell does not match up with the predictions of robustness, suggesting that the loss of robustness may play an important role in cancer. This could explain why cancer cells are able to easily change their characteristics in response to changes in the environment. In addition, using genome-wide, haplotype-based, analysis to characterise the structure of genetic diversity and gene-flow in a collection of 48 sub-Saharan African groups, we show that coastal populations experienced an influx of Eurasian haplotypes over the last 7000 years, and that Eastern and Southern Niger-Congo speaking groups share ancestry with Central West Africans as a result of recent population expansions. In fact, most sub-Saharan populations share ancestry with groups from outside of their current geographic region as a result of gene-flow within the last 4000 years. Our in-depth analysis provides insight into haplotype sharing across different ethno-linguistic groups and the recent movement of alleles into new environments, both of which are relevant to studies of genetic epidemiology.
 The thalamocortical network is a complex system of neurons and synapses that plays a crucial role in sleep regulation. In this study, we developed a biophysically realistic model of the thalamocortical network that incorporates the effects of neuromodulators such as acetylcholine (ACh), GABA, histamine (HA), serotonin (5-HT), and norepinephrine (NE) on sleep stages. We found that the model accurately reproduced the temporal dynamics of spindle and delta oscillations observed in the EEG and LFP recordings of cats and mice during NREM sleep. We also found that the model could explain the differences in the temporal dynamics of spindle and delta oscillations observed in the EEG and LFP recordings of humans and mice during SWS. We predicted that these differences could arise from the relative differences in the level of ACh in the brains of humans, cats, and mice. We further applied the model to explain the electrical activity observed in propofol-induced anesthesia. Our study predicts that even minor changes of ACh levels may affect the dynamics of spindle and delta oscillations in NREM sleep and thus possibly affect the dynamics of memory consolidation. Our study also found that anesthetic drugs such as propofol may induce sleep-like patterns of electrical activity in the human brain by affecting the levels of all three of the neuromodulators. Our study defines a new role for EBNA3A in the suppression of apoptosis with implications for EBV lymphomagenesis .
 The study of the C-terminal domain (CTD) of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) has revealed that it is a large, disordered domain with a tandem heptapeptide repeat structure. The CTD is involved in the co-transcriptional recruitment of chromatin modifiers and RNA processing machinery. In vertebrates, the CTD has eight non-canonical substitutions of Serine-7 into Lysine-7, which can be acetylated. The study found that mono- and di-methylation of CTD-K7 residues also occur in both vertebrates and invertebrates. These modifications precede or accompany phosphorylation of S5 and S7, upstream of S2 phosphorylation. The study used biochemical and genome-wide approaches to show that CTD-K7 methylation is present at the promoters of genes that are productively transcribed into mature RNA. The study also showed that gene expression levels depend on the balance between CTD-K7 methylation and acetylation. The study highlights the importance of the CTD in the regulation of gene expression and the complexity of post-translational modifications in the CTD.
 The study by Sabnis et al. provides new insights into the mechanism of action of colistin, an antibiotic of last resort used to treat infections caused by multidrug-resistant bacteria. The authors found that colistin disrupts both the outer and inner membranes of bacteria in the same way, targeting lipopolysaccharide in the inner membrane as well as the outer membrane. They also found that the addition of murepavadin, a drug that causes lipopolysaccharide to build up at the inner membrane, magnifies the effects of colistin, making it more effective at killing bacteria. The authors suggest that this combination of colistin and murepavadin could be used as a clinical treatment for lung infections caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa in people with cystic fibrosis.
 The entorhinal cortex (EC) is a region of the brain that is important for memory and spatial navigation. However, the human homologue of the rodent EC remains unclear. In this study, the authors used high-field functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to identify the human homologue of the rodent EC. They found that the human EC is divided into two subregions, the medial and lateral EC, which are similar to the rodent MEC and LEC, respectively. The authors also found that the human EC is involved in spatial navigation and memory, and that it has a similar structure and function to the rodent EC. These findings provide important insights into the human brain and its role in memory and spatial navigation.
 The human pathogen Streptococcus pneumoniae is a leading cause of invasive disease in children . The duration of carriage in the nasopharynx is a critical factor in the epidemiology of pneumococcal disease . The duration of carriage is affected by a large number of factors including host immune response , other bacterial species and other pneumococcal lineages . The average carriage duration is affected by variation in the pneumococcal genome . We used a combination of epidemiological modelling and genome-wide association studies to estimate the heritability of carriage duration and to identify the genetic factors that contribute to its variation . We found that the pneumococcal genotype accounts for 63% of the variance in carriage duration . We also found that prophage sequences are associated with decreased carriage duration . These findings provide insights into the mechanisms underlying pneumococcal competition and antibiotic resistance . The results of this study will help to improve our understanding of the epidemiology of pneumococcal disease and to inform the development of new strategies for controlling its spread .
 The study of complex systems is a challenging task, as it requires the integration of multiple levels of description and the analysis of interactions between different components. In this context, the concept of an "interaction-based eco-evolutionary model" has been proposed as a way to simplify the complexity of real-world systems by focusing on the interactions between different species. The model is based on the idea that the evolution of a species is driven by its interactions with other species in the environment, and that these interactions can be represented as a network of interactions. The model has been used to study the evolution of complex systems such as ecosystems, metabolic networks, and social systems. The model has been shown to be useful for understanding the dynamics of complex systems and for making predictions about their future evolution. However, the model has also been criticized for being too simplistic and for not taking into account the complexity of real-world systems. Despite these criticisms, the interaction-based eco-evolutionary model remains a promising approach for studying the evolution of complex systems.
 The study by Teeling et al. (2012) provides a detailed analysis of the bacterial community composition during spring phytoplankton blooms in the North Sea. The authors used time-series metagenome and metaproteome analyses to investigate the response of bacterioplankton clades to algal blooms. They found that the succession of bacterioplankton clades was characterized by a series of distinct gene function repertoires, which suggests that changes in substrate availability were among the forces that shaped the bacterioplankton community. The study provides valuable insights into the dynamics of bacterioplankton communities during algal blooms and highlights the importance of studying the interactions between microorganisms and their environment.
 'The circadian clock is a central regulator of biological processes in organisms across kingdoms of life . In the cyanobacterium Syrechocorrr PCC7942 , the core circadian oscillator is comprised of the KaiA , KaiB and KaiC proteins ( Nishiwaki et al . , 2007; Rust et al . , 2007 ) that generate oscillations in the phosphorylation state of KaiC . Time information encoded in the phosphorylation state of KaiC is transmitted to the transcription factor RpaA ( Takai et al . , 2006; Taniguchi et al . , 2010; Markson et al . , 2013 ) to generate circadian changes in gene expression ( Markson et al . , 2013 ) . In continuous light , the expression of more than 60% of protein-coding genes in S . elongatus is regulated in a circadian manner ( Vijayararasu et al . , 2009 ) with two main phases of gene expression: genes peaking at subjective dawn or subjective dusk , where the term ‘subjective’ refers to an internal estimate of time in the absence of external cues . Deletion of rpaA disrupts these rhythms in mRNA abundance and arrests cells in a subjective dawn-like transcriptional state , rendering them unable to switch to a subjective dusk-like expression program( Markson et al . , 2013 ) . While it is clear that the circadian transcriptional program schedules timing of gene expression when the clock is free-running in the absence of changes in external light , it is unclear how circadian control of gene expression is used under more physiologically relevant conditions when light and dark periods alternate . Exposure to darkness restricts energy availability , creating unique metabolic demands in cyanobacteria which depend on sunlight for energy production through photosynthesis . Strikingly , the rpaA- strain exhibits defects in cell growth and viability in cyclic , but not in constant light environments( Taririna et al . , 2013 ) , suggesting an important role for circadian regulation of gene expression in alternating light/dark cycles . We find that both accumulation and utilization of the carbon reserves required for energy production during periods of darkness are defective in the rpaA- strain , and that correction of these defects restores viability . Our results provide insight into the role of the circadian output pathway in enhancing fitness of cyanobacteria through coordination of central carbon metabolism with the metabolic demands imposed by periodic changes in the external environment .';
 The study of bacterial chemotaxis has provided a unique opportunity to investigate the relationship between protein expression and cellular behavior. The authors of this study have developed a mathematical model that describes the behavior of a single cell in response to different environmental cues. They have used this model to investigate the effects of different levels of protein expression on cellular behavior and have found that there is a trade-off between the ability of a cell to respond to different environmental cues and its ability to maintain a stable behavior. The authors have also used their model to investigate the effects of different levels of protein expression on the ability of a population of cells to adapt to changing environmental conditions. They have found that there is a trade-off between the ability of a population to adapt to changing environmental conditions and its ability to maintain a stable behavior. The authors have used their model to investigate the effects of different levels of protein expression on the ability of a population of cells to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions. They have found that there is a trade-off between the ability of a population to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions and its ability to maintain a stable behavior. The authors have used their model to investigate the effects of different levels of protein expression on the ability of a population of cells to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions. They have found that there is a trade-off between the ability of a population to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions and its ability to maintain a stable behavior. The authors have used their model to investigate the effects of different levels of protein expression on the ability of a population of cells to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions. They have found that there is a trade-off between the ability of a population to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions and its ability to maintain a stable behavior. The authors have used their model to investigate the effects of different levels of protein expression on the ability of a population of cells to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions. They have found that there is a trade-off between the ability of a population to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions and its ability to maintain a stable behavior. The authors have used their model to investigate the effects of different levels of protein expression on the ability of a population of cells to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions. They have found that there is a trade-off between the ability of a population to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions and its ability to maintain a stable behavior. The authors have used their model to investigate the effects of different levels of protein expression on the ability of a population of cells to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions. They have found that there is a trade-off between the ability of a population to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions and its ability to maintain a stable behavior. The authors have used their model to investigate the effects of different levels of protein expression on the ability of a population of cells to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions. They have found that there is a trade-off between the ability of a population to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions and its ability to maintain a stable behavior. The authors have used their model to investigate the effects of different levels of protein expression on the ability of a population of cells to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions. They have found that there is a trade-off between the ability of a population to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions and its ability to maintain a stable behavior. The authors have used their model to investigate the effects of different levels of protein expression on the ability of a population of cells to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions. They have found that there is a trade-off between the ability of a population to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions and its ability to maintain a stable behavior. The authors have used their model to investigate the effects of different levels of protein expression on the ability of a population of cells to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions. They have found that there is a trade-off between the ability of a population to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions and its ability to maintain a stable behavior. The authors have used their model to investigate the effects of different levels of protein expression on the ability of a population of cells to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions. They have found that there is a trade-off between the ability of a population to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions and its ability to maintain a stable behavior. The authors have used their model to investigate the effects of different levels of protein expression on the ability of a population of cells to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions. They have found that there is a trade-off between the ability of a population to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions and its ability to maintain a stable behavior. The authors have used their model to investigate the effects of different levels of protein expression on the ability of a population of cells to evolve in response to changing environmental conditions. They have found that there is a trade-
 The authors present a novel method to analyze the spatial distribution of intracellular events represented by any static or dynamical descriptor ( e . g . detected points , segmented regions , trajectories . . . ) provided that the descriptors are associated with spatial coordinates . The method, called QuantEV, is designed to analyze the spatial distribution of intracellular events in unconstrained , crossbow- and disk-shaped cells . The authors apply QuantEV to detect significant differences between molecular trafficking and phenotypes observed in cells with various shapes . The first application is concerned with the distribution of membranes labeled by GFP-Rab6 as a hallmark of vesicular carriers in unconstrained , crossbow- and disk-shaped cells . The second application focuses on the dynamics of mCherry-Rab11-positive membranes . The authors find that the conformation of the cell influences where Rab6 is located in crossbow-shaped cells, while its distribution is uniform in cells that look like disks . They also find that actin disruption influences the ERC localization with respect to time in disk-shaped cells. Finally, they analyze the joined influence of actin disruption and cell shape on the radial distribution of Rab11 vesicles trafficking . The authors conclude that QuantEV should make it easier for biologists to analyze their results and to have a better grasp on how cells work in various circumstances.
 The authors report a functional switching valve within the female genitalia of the Brazilian cave insect Neotrogla. The valve complex is composed of two plate-like sclerites, a closure element, and in-and-outflow canals. Females have a penis-like intromittent organ to coercively anchor males and obtain voluminous semen. The semen is packed in a capsule, whose formation is initiated by seminal injection. The valve complex has two slots for insemination, allowing females to compete for seminal gifts in their nutrient-poor cave habitats through long copulation times and multiple seminal injections. The evolution of this switching valve may have been a prerequisite for the reversal of the intromittent organ in Neotrogla. The authors discuss the implications of their findings for the evolution of complex biological systems.
 Bats are known to carry viruses that are deadly to other mammals, but they appear to be immune to these viruses themselves. Scientists have been studying how bats manage to stay immune to these viruses, and a recent study has shed new light on this question. Researchers used fluorescent microscopy to track the movement of fluorescently labeled viruses in bat cells. They found that the viruses were highly mobile and that they entered and exited synaptic clefts, the spaces between neurons where synaptic transmission occurs. This suggests that bats may have a unique mechanism for keeping viruses from entering their cells. The researchers also used super-resolution microscopy to track the movement of fluorescently labeled AMPARs, the receptors that allow neurons to communicate with each other. They found that most of the AMPARs were stationary and that they were located within synaptic clefts. This suggests that bats may have a unique mechanism for keeping AMPARs in their cells. Overall, this study provides new insights into how bats manage to stay immune to deadly viruses.
 The study of chromatin remodeling is a complex and challenging field. Chromatin remodeling is the process by which the structure of chromatin, the complex of DNA and associated proteins, is altered. This process is essential for many cellular processes, including gene expression, DNA repair, and replication. Chromatin remodeling is carried out by a variety of proteins, including histone acetyltransferases (HATs), histone deacetylases (HDACs), and nucleosome remodeling complexes (NRCs). These proteins work together to regulate the structure of chromatin and the accessibility of DNA to the transcription machinery.
 Amyloid light chain aryrosphorilosis ( AL amyloidosis ) is a rare and often fatal disease caused by a disorder of the bone marrow . It is characterized by the overproduction of Y-shaped antibodies ( Y-shaped ALCs ) that misfold and form structures , known as amyloid fibrils . The fibrils build up outside the cells , gradually causing damage to tissues and organs that can lead to life-threatening organ failure . Due to the rarity of the disease , diagnosis is often overlooked and delayed . People with AL amyloidosis have a variety of mutations in the antibody light chain , and each patient has a unique set of mutations implicated in their disease . It is thought that mutations in the antibody light chain make it unstable and prone to misfolding , but it remains unclear which specific mutations trigger aryrosphil formation propensity . Now , using single particle tracking ( SPT ) , we have identified the key mutation responsible for aryrosphil formation propensity and to elucidate its effects on conformational dynamics that result in fibril formation . The experiments revealed that after the antibody light chain was cut in two , a process that happens naturally in the body , this smaller part was continuously removed from the membrane via the immobile state and replaced with the fast state , reminiscent of Ras internalization and recycling . Importantly , both the diffusion and trafficking properties of KRasG12D remained invariant over a broad range of protein expression levels . Our results reveal how membrane organization dictates KRasG12D diffusion and trafficking , and offer new insight into the spatial regulation of Ras signaling .
 The inferior colliculus (IC) is a key brain region for hearing and sound processing. In this study, the authors used a combination of genetic, morphological, and physiological approaches to identify a specific class of neurons in the IC, called vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) neurons. These neurons are glutamatergic stellate cells that project to multiple brain regions and participate in a wide range of auditory and non-auditory functions. The authors also used viral tracing and circuit mapping to identify the connections between VIP neurons and other brain regions. Their findings suggest that VIP neurons play a crucial role in sound processing and may be a target for treatments of hearing loss.
 The study by Kendall et al. presents a novel approach to understanding the neural basis of congenital amusia, a rare condition characterized by impaired perception of and memory for pitch. The authors used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate the neural processing of spoken language in individuals with amusia and controls. They found that individuals with amusia had decreased functional connectivity between language regions and pitch-related regions during speech processing. The authors suggest that this may reflect the decreased reliance on pitch cues for processing spoken language in amusia. The study provides new insights into the neural mechanisms underlying congenital amusia and may lead to new approaches for treating the condition.
 Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a group of inherited eye diseases that cause progressive vision loss. The disease is caused by mutations in genes that are important for the function of photoreceptor cells, which are responsible for detecting light and converting it into electrical signals that can be transmitted to the brain. The mutations in these genes can lead to the death of photoreceptor cells, which results in vision loss. There is currently no cure for RP, and treatment options are limited. One potential treatment option is gene therapy, which involves replacing the mutated gene with a healthy copy of the gene. However, gene therapy is still in the early stages of development, and there are many challenges that need to be overcome before it can be used to treat RP. One of the challenges is identifying the specific genes that are causing the disease in each patient. This can be difficult because there are many different genes that can cause RP, and each patient may have a different combination of mutations. Another challenge is delivering the healthy copy of the gene to the correct cells in the eye. This can be difficult because the eye is a complex and delicate organ that is protected by many layers of tissue. There is also the risk that the healthy copy of the gene could cause side effects or be rejected by the body's immune system. Despite these challenges, there is hope that gene therapy could one day be used to treat RP. Researchers are working hard to develop new and better ways to identify the specific genes that are causing the disease in each patient, and to deliver the healthy copy of the gene to the correct cells in the eye. With continued research and development, it may be possible to use gene therapy to treat RP and restore vision to those who are affected by the disease.
 We show that ISG15, a linear di-ubiquitin-like protein, is dramatically induced upon Listeria infection in nonphagocytic cells. This induction is independent of type I interferon and depends on the cytosolic surveillance pathway, which senses bacterial DNA and signals through STING, TBK1, IRF3, and IRF7. We demonstrate that ISG15 counteracts Listeria infection both in vitro and in vivo. We identify protein targets of ISGylation following overexpression of ISG15 using stable isotope labeling in tissue culture analysis and uncover a prominent enrichment in integral membrane proteins of the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus. This enrichment correlates with an increase in canonical secretion of cytokines known to control infection, highlighting a new mechanism of regulation of the host response to an intracytosolic pathogen.
 The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a central hub for protein biogenesis, folding, and quality control. The ER membrane protein complex (EMC) is a conserved multi-protein complex that plays a crucial role in the biogenesis of membrane proteins. The EMC is composed of two subunits, EMC1 and EMC2, which are responsible for the insertion of transmembrane helices into the membrane. The EMC also interacts with a variety of regulatory factors, including chaperones, to ensure the stability and quality of membrane proteins. In this study, we determined the structures of the yeast and human EMC bound to a Fab and two conformations of the human EMC. We also characterized the phenotypes of three distinct classes of EMC clients associated with a series of structure-based EMC mutants. Our findings reveal a modular architecture of the EMC that enables its diverse functions in membrane protein biogenesis. The EMC adopts a modular architecture enabling its diverse functions in membrane protein biogenesis. The EMC is composed of two subunits, EMC1 and EMC2, which are responsible for the insertion of transmembrane helices into the membrane. The EMC also interacts with a variety of regulatory factors, including chaperones, to ensure the stability and quality of membrane proteins. In this study, we determined the structures of the yeast and human EMC bound to a Fab and two conformations of the human EMC. We also characterized the phenotypes of three distinct classes of EMC clients associated with a series of structure-based EMC mutants. Our findings reveal a modular architecture of the EMC that enables its diverse functions in membrane protein biogenesis. The EMC adopts a modular architecture enabling its diverse functions in membrane protein biogenesis. The EMC is composed of two subunits, EMC1 and EMC2, which are responsible for the insertion of transmembrane helices into the membrane. The EMC also interacts with a variety of regulatory factors, including chaperones, to ensure the stability and quality of membrane proteins. In this study, we determined the structures of the yeast and human EMC bound to a Fab and two conformations of the human EMC. We also characterized the phenotypes of three distinct classes of EMC clients associated with a series of structure-based EMC mutants. Our findings reveal a modular architecture of the EMC that enables its diverse functions in membrane protein biogenesis. The EMC adopts a modular architecture enabling its diverse functions in membrane protein biogenesis. The EMC is composed of two subunits, EMC1 and EMC2, which are responsible for the insertion of transmembrane helices into the membrane. The EMC also interacts with a variety of regulatory factors, including chaperones, to ensure the stability and quality of membrane proteins. In this study, we determined the structures of the yeast and human EMC bound to a Fab and two conformations of the human EMC. We also characterized the phenotypes of three distinct classes of EMC clients associated with a series of structure-based EMC mutants. Our findings reveal a modular architecture of the EMC that enables its diverse functions in membrane protein biogenesis. The EMC adopts a modular architecture enabling its diverse functions in membrane protein biogenesis. The EMC is composed of two subunits, EMC1 and EMC2, which are responsible for the insertion of transmembrane helices into the membrane. The EMC also interacts with a variety of regulatory factors, including chaperones, to ensure the stability and quality of membrane proteins. In this study, we determined the structures of the yeast and human EMC bound to a Fab and two conformations of the human EMC. We also characterized the phenotypes of three distinct classes of EMC clients associated with a series of structure-based EMC mutants. Our findings reveal a modular architecture of the EMC that enables its diverse functions in membrane protein biogenesis. The EMC adopts a modular architecture enabling its diverse functions in membrane protein biogenesis. The EMC is composed of two subunits, EMC1 and EMC2, which are responsible for the insertion of transmembrane helices into the membrane. The EMC also interacts with a variety of regulatory factors, including chaperones, to ensure the stability and quality of membrane proteins. In this study, we determined the structures of the yeast and human EMC bound to a Fab and two conformations of the human EMC. We also characterized the phenotypes of three distinct classes of EMC
